Operation Pawn Storm refers to economic Access (OWA) users from the previously 
and political espionage attacks instigated by mentioned organizations. The OWA phishing 
a group of threat actors primarily targeting attacks seemed effective and so could be 
military, embassy, and defense contractor particularly dangerous to any organization 
personnel from the United States and its that allows employees to use OWA.
allies. Opposing factions to and dissidents of 
the Russian government, international media, An in-depth look at six multistage attacks 
and even the national security department revealed one thing in common the use of 
of a U.S. ally were also targeted. The threat SEDNIT/Sofacy malware. The use 
actors used three attac  vectors spear of such multistage downloaders provided 
phishing emails with malicious attachments, attackers additional protection against 
an advanced network of phishing websites, detection. We believe the threat actors aimed 
and exploits injected into legitimate Polish to confuse their targets’ IT administrators 
websites. Among the targets of the advanced by making it hard for them to string attack 
phishing attacks were ACADEMI, a defense components together, thus evading detection.
contractor formerly known as “Blackwater,” 
SAIC, and the Organization for Security This research paper details when certain 
and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE). attacks occurred, what tools were used in 
As discussed in this research paper, the attempts to get in to target networks, and 
attackers used a simple but clever JavaScript target profiles to form a general picture of 
trick to target Microsoft™ Outlook® Web Operation Pawn Storm.

TIES THAT BIND THE OPERATION PAWN
STORM ATTACKS TOGETHER

SEDNIT
SEDNIT malware are mostly backdoors 
and information stealers that log affected 
users’ keystrokes, steal system information, 
and send stolen information to remote 
command-and-control (C&C) servers.

Attack Timeline
The investigation focused on a group of 
attacks that has been dubbed “Operation 
Pawn Storm” due to the attackers’ use of 
two or more connected tools/tactics to attack 
a specific target similar to the chess strategy 
it was named after. This paper illustrates how 
the Pawn Storm attacks were carried out with 
the aid of five spear phishing emails, which 
used contextually relevant subjects to get 
specific targets from different countries to 
open weaponized attachments designed to 
compromise their systems.

The attackers sent emails to potential victims, 
including military, embassy, and defense 
contractor personnel. The following emails 
were among those that were found related to 
this operation:

• An email sent to a potential victim 
from the Ministry of Defense in France 
had an exploit for CVE-2010-3333 
disguised as a document named 
“International Military.rtf.”

• An email sent to a potential victim working 
from the Vatican Embassy 
in Iraq used reports of a bombing 
incident that occurred on January 
9, 2012 as social engineering lure. 
Sent a day after the incident, 
the email had a Microsoft 
Word file attachment named 
“IDF_Spokesperson_Terror_
Attack_011012.doc,” which 
exploited CVE-2012-0158.

• An email sent on September 20, 
to military officials from several 
countries used the then-upcoming 
Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation 
(APEC Indonesia 2013) conference 
as bait. The email had two Microsoft 
Excel file attachments named 
“APEC Media list 2013 Part1.xls,” 
which exploited CVE-2012-0158, and 
“APEC Media list 2013 Part2.xls,” 
which was nonmalicious.

• An email sent to Pakistani military 
officials used the 
“Homeland Security Summit Middle 
East” conference as bait. It had a 
Word file attachment named “Details. 
doc,” which exploited CVE-2012-
0158.

• An email sent to Polish government 
employees on August 11, 2014 
had a MIME HTML file 
attachment named “MH17.doc,” which 
exploited CVE-2012-0158.

Attack Details
All of the observed Operation Pawn Storm 
attacks comprised several stages. Each 
attack had at least two phases:

• In phase 1, opening the email 
attachment displays a decoy 
document while the exploit runs in 
the background. The exploit drops 
a downloader component DLL file  
named “netids.dll,” “netidt.dll,” or 
“coreshell.dll.”

• In phase 2, the downloader 
component communicates with a C&C 
server and downloads a dropper that 
ultimately installs a keylogger. After 
capturing information from infected 
systems, the keylogger sends data 
back to the C&C server.

We only managed to collect latter- 
stage payloads for two out of the six 
aforementioned attacks. The C&C servers 
tied to the other four attacks refused to serve 
the rest of the files to complete the attack 
chains. Repeated attempts to trick the C&C servers into serving 
the next files in the incomplete attack chains 
failed. The attacks they were tied to could be 
time sensitive and it is possible that they no 
longer hosted the files for succeeding stages.

Multistage attacks are a double-edged sword. 
If one link in the attack chain, aside from 
the end node, is detected and removed in 
the initial infection stage, the entire attack 
fails. On the other hand, having several 
links in the attack chain makes detecting the 
final component more difficult. Tracing the 
previous and next links is also difficult when 
any of the components is inspected on its 
own outside the attack chain.

Attack Evolution
Even though the filenames used for different 
components remained fairly consistent from 
2010 to the present, earlier attacks were 
more elaborate and complex compared with 
those seen this year. The 2014 attacks we 
have seen were more streamlined.

Although variations in past and current 
attack chains exist, both are still being 
used by threat actors to date to ensure one 
thing—detection evasion.

Exploits Spread SEDNIT Malware in Poland

The threat actors behind Operation Pawn 
Storm spread SEDNIT malware via exploits 
on legitimate Polish websites. In September 
2014, for instance, the Power Exchange 
website in Poland was 
compromised. The attackers rigged it with an 
iframe that pointed to a specific URL. The first link 
led to an exploit kit that was responsible 
for spreading SEDNIT malware.

It is remarkable that a mass infection 
methodology was used by the Pawn Storm 
actors even though the actual SEDNIT 
samples were only served to particular 
targets. Actual exploitation was only triggered 
when certain criteria that had to do with OS, 
language settings, time zone, and installed 
software were met.

Next-Level Phishing Targets

The attackers used specially crafted emails 
to redirect targets to any of several phishing 
websites with domain names that were very 
similar to those of well-known conferences 
and media outfits. These websites did not 
host malicious content but visiting them 
did lead to the automatic execution of a 
nonmalicious JavaScript. Links to these fake 
websites were then embedded in spear-
phishing emails and sent to selected targets.

Opening such an email and clicking the 
link in OWA redirected victims to legitimate 
websites. The JavaScript made it appear that 
the victims’ OWA sessions ended while at 
the same time, tricked them into reentering 
their credentials. To do this, the attackers 
redirected victims to fake OWA log-in pages 
by setting their browsers’ open windows 
property. The victims’ credentials thus ended 
up in the attackers’ hands.

Note that two special conditions need to 
be met for the attacks to succeed—victims 
should use OWA and click the embedded 
links via the web portal’s preview pane. The 
attacks worked on any popular browser such 
as Firefox, Safari, Chrome, and Internet 
Explorer. No vulnerabilities need to be 
exploited for the JavaScript to work.

Because many companies allow employees 
to use webmail services to access their 
mailboxes while on business travel or at 
home, these attacks are likely to succeed. 
Once they do, attackers can gain access to 
compromised mailboxes that they can then 
use to gain a foothold in target networks.

Throughout the course of investigation, 
several targets have been identified, 
including:

• ACADEMI, formerly Blackwater 
(United States)

• Broadcasting companies in various 
countries

• Military attachés from various 
countries

• Ministry of Defense (France)

• Ministry of Defense (Hungary)

• Multinational company based in 
Germany

• OSCE (Austria)

• Pakistani military officials

• Polish government employees

• SAIC (United States)

• U.S. Department of State

• Vatican Embassy (Iraq)

The following case studies reveal more in-
depth details on four specific attacks.

CASE 1: MINISTRY OF DEFENSE, 
HUNGARY

• Malicious conference domain: 
eurosatory2014.com

• Real conference domain: 
eurosatory.com

• Phished OWA domain: mail.hm.qov.hu

• Real OWA domain: mail.hm.gov.hu

The attackers created a domain that was 
very similar to eurosatory.com, a website 
for an international land and air-land defense 
and security exhibition. They then sent emails 
with the link to the malicious domain to 
selected employees of the target defense 
ministry who might actually have been 
expecting to hear from the conference staff 
members.

Clicking the link embedded in the email 
via the OWA preview pane opens the real 
conference website in a new tab. The victims’ 
OWA session in the other tab, meanwhile, 
is redirected to a phished log-in page that 
makes it look like the session has ended.

In reality, the victims’ OWA session did not 
end. The previously mentioned JavaScript 
just redirected them to a fake OWA log-
in page that looks just like the Ministry of 
Defense in Hungary’s real one.

Apart from “EUROSATORY 2014,” other 
conferences were also used to target 
employees of the Ministry of Defense in 
Hungary.

CASE 2: OSCE, AUSTRIA

• Malicious news domain: vice-news.com

• Real news domain: news.vice.com

• Phished OWA domain: log-in-osce.org

• Real OWA domain: log-in.osce.org

This attack targeted OSCE employees in 
Austria. Although the attackers used similar 
tactics, they did not spoof a conference 
website. They instead used a fake version of 
the news website, news.vice.com.

Even though OSCE provides better security 
for webmail users compared with the other 
targets via one-time session token use during 
log-in, attackers can still steal highly sensitive 
data from victims by hijacking a single 
session.

CASE 3: SAIC, UNITED STATES

• Malicious conference domain: 
natoexhibitionff14.com

• Real conference domain: 
natoexhibition.org

• Phished OWA domain: webmail-saic.com

• Real OWA domain: webmail.saic.com

This attack targeting SAIC was very similar 
to the first case. The attackers spoofed 
the website of the “Future Forces 2014” 
conference to trick email recipients into 
handing over their webmail credentials.

CASE 4: ACADEMI

• Malicious news domain: tolonevvs.com

• Real news domain: tolonews.com

• Phished OWA domain: academl.com

• Real OWA domain: academi.com

This attack targeted the employees of U.S. 
defense contractor, ACADEMI, using the 
same phishing tactics as in the second case.

Apart from the four specific cases presented 
above, evidence pointing to a fake OWA 
server for a multinational company based in 
Germany was also discovered. The threat 
actors registered a domain that looked 
very similar to the target’s real domain and 
purchased a Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) 
certificate for the fake domain as part of 
preparations for a targeted attack.

Other Webmail Services

OWA users are not the only ones at risk 
though, as the threat actors behind Operation 
Pawn Storm also targeted users of free 
webmail services such as Gmail, Live Mail, 
Yahoo!, Hushmail, and Yandex.

We leaked specific credentials to the threat 
actors in a couple of cases to see if the 
fake webmail service log-in pages were 
indeed intended for attack use. Within 
minutes of leaking the test credentials, 
unauthorized log-ins were recorded. The 
first log in was usually an automated log 
in check from the same IP address as the 
phishing website’s owner. The succeeding 
log-ins were made from specific IP addresses, 
via Internet Message Access 
Protocol (IMAP). No other forms of abuse 
such as sending spam via the compromised 
accounts were witnessed. This showed that 
the attackers were indeed trying to obtain 
sensitive data from their targets instead 
of using their accounts for fraud and other 
financially motivated scams.

CONCLUSION

Operation Pawn Storm used next-level 
spear-phishing tactics to obtain the email 
credentials of primarily military, embassy, 
and defense contractor personnel from the 
United States and its allies. The threat actors 
used a mix of spear-phishing emails and 
specially crafted webmail service phishing 
websites to gain access to victims’ inboxes in 
hopes of getting better footholds inside target 
organizations. So as not to raise suspicion, 
the attackers used well-known events and 
conferences as social engineering bait. They 
have been quite persistent as well, as we 
have seen evidence that attacks have been 
going on since 2007.

Apart from effective phishing tactics, the 
threat actors used a combination of proven 
targeted attack staples to compromise 
systems and get in to target networks— 
exploits and data-stealing malware. SEDNIT 
variants particularly proved useful, as 
these allowed the threat actors to steal all 
manners of sensitive information from the 
victims’ computers while effectively evading 
detection.