APT28:  
AT THE CENTER 
OF THE STORM
RUSSIA STRATEGICALLY EVOLVES  
ITS CYBER OPERATIONS

INTRODUCTION
The Democratic National Committee’s (DNC) June 
2016 announcement attributing its network breach 
to the Russian Government triggered an international 
debate over Russia’s sponsorship of information 
operations against the U.S. 

At issue is the question of proof: did the Russian Government direct the group 
responsible for the breaches and related data leaks? If so, is this simply a matter  
of accepted state espionage, or did it cross a line? Was the DNC breach part  
of a concerted effort by the Russian Government to interfere with the U.S. 
presidential election?

Unfortunately, we have failed to ask the most consequential question: how will 
Russia continue to employ a variety of methods, including hacks and leaks,  
to undermine the institutions, policies, and actors that the Russian Government 
perceives as constricting and condemning its forceful pursuit of its state aims? 

Our visibility into the operations of APT28 - a group we believe the Russian 
Government sponsors - has given us insight into some of the government’s  
targets, as well as its objectives and the activities designed to further them.  
We have tracked and profiled this group through multiple investigations, endpoint 
and network detections, and continuous monitoring. Our visibility into APT28’s 
operations, which date to at least 2007, has allowed us to understand the group’s 
malware, operational changes, and motivations. This intelligence has been critical 
to protecting and informing our clients, exposing this threat, and strengthening  
our confidence in attributing APT28 to the Russian Government.

OVERVIEW

On December 29, 2016, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) 
and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) released a Joint Analysis 
Report confirming FireEye’s long held public assessment that the Russian 
Government sponsors APT28. Since at least 2007, APT28 has engaged  
in extensive operations in support of Russian strategic interests.  
The group, almost certainly compromised of a sophisticated and prolific 
set of developers and operators, has historically collected intelligence on 
defense and geopolitical issues. APT28 espionage activity has primarily 
targeted entities in the U.S., Europe, and the countries of the former 
Soviet Union, including governments and militaries, defense attaches, 
media entities, and dissidents and figures opposed to the current Russian 
Government.

Over the past two years, Russia appears to have increasingly leveraged 
APT28 to conduct information operations commensurate with broader 
strategic military doctrine. After compromising a victim organization, 
APT28 will steal internal data that is then leaked to further political 
narratives aligned with Russian interests. To date these have included  
the conflict in Syria, NATO-Ukraine relations, the European Union refugee 
and migrant crisis, the 2016 Olympics and Paralympics Russian athlete 
doping scandal, public accusations regarding Russian state-sponsored 
hacking, and the 2016 U.S. presidential election. 

This report details our observations of APT28’s 
targeting, and our investigation into a related 
breach. We also provide an update on shifts in the 
group’s tool development and use, and summarize 
the tactics APT28 employs to compromise its victims.

APT28 TARGETING AND 
INTRUSION ACTIVITY
In October 2014, FireEye released APT28: A Window into 
Russia’s Cyber Espionage Operations?, and characterized 
APT28’s activity as aligning with the Russian Government’s 
strategic intelligence requirements. While tracking APT28, 
we noted the group’s interest in foreign governments and 
militaries, particularly those of European and Eastern  
European nations, as well as regional security organizations, 
such as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)  
and the Organization for Security and Cooperation  
in Europe (OSCE), among others. Table 1 highlights  
some recent examples of this activity.

TABLE 1 : APT28 TARGETING OF POLITICAL ENTITIES AND INTRUSION ACTIVITY

ENTITY TIMEFRAME APT28 TARGETING AND INTRUSION ACTIVIT Y 

OSCE NOVEMBER 2016 The OSCE confirmed that it had suffered an intrusion,  
which a Western intelligence service attributed to APT28.

Germany's Christian  
Democratic Union (CDU) APRIL - MAY 2016 Researchers at Trend Micro observed APT28  establish a fake  
CDU email server and launch phishing emails against CDU  
members in an attempt to obtain their email credentials and access 
their accounts.

Pussy Riot AUGUST 2015 APT28 targets Russian rockers and dissidents Pussy Riot via 
spear-phishing emails.

NATO, Afghan Ministry  APT28 used two domains (nato-news.com and bbc-news.org) to host 
of Foreign Affairs, Pakistani JULY 2015 an Adobe Flash zero-day exploit to target NATO, the Afghan Ministry 
Military of Foreign Affairs, and the Pakistani military.

German Bundestag  
& Political Parties JUNE 2015 Germany’s Federal Office for Security in Information Technology (BSI) 
announced that APT28 was likely responsible for the spear phishing 
emails sent to members of several German political parties.  The head 
of Germany’s domestic intelligence agency, Bundesamt für Ver-
fassungsschutz (BfV), also attributed the June 2015 compromise of 
the Bundestag’s networks to APT28.

Kyrgyzstan Ministry  OCTOBER 2014 FireEye iSight Intelligence identified changes made to domain name 
THROUGH  server (DNS) records that suggest that APT28 intercepted email traf-
of Foreign Affairs SEPTEMBER 2015 fic from the Kyrgyzstan Ministry of Foreign Affairs after maliciously 
modifying DNS records of the ministry’s authoritative DNS servers.

Polish Government & Power JUNE AND  APT28 employed “Sedkit” in conjunction with strategic web compro-
Exchange websites SEPTEMBER 2014 mises to deliver “Sofacy” malware on Polish Government websites, 
and the websites of Polish energy company Power Exchange.

Since 2014, APT28 network activity has likely supported Table 2 highlights incidents in which victims suffered 
information operations designed to influence the domestic a compromise that FireEye iSIGHT Intelligence, other 
politics of foreign nations. Some of these operations have authorities, or the victims themselves later attributed to the 
involved the disruption and defacement of websites, false flag group we track as APT28. All of these operations have aimed 
operations using false hacktivist personas, and the theft of to achieve a similar objective: securing a political outcome 
data that was later leaked publicly online.  beneficial to Russia.

TABLE 2 : APT28 NETWORK ACTIVITY HAS LIKELY SUPPORTED INFORMATION OPERATIONS

VICTIM TIMEFRAME APT28 NETWORK ACTIVIT Y ASSOCIATED INFORMATION OPERATIONS 
ACTIVITY

World Anti-Doping  On September 13, WADA confirmed that APT28 On September 12, 2016, the “Fancy Bears’ Hack Team” persona 
SEPTEMBER 2016 had compromised its networks and accessed claimed to have compromised WADA and released athletes’ 
Agency (WADA) athlete medical data.  medical records as “proof of American athletes taking dop-
ing.”

The DNC announced it had suffered a network In June 2016, shortly after the DNC’s announcement, the Gu-
U.S. Democratic National compromise and that a subsequent investigation ccifer 2.0 persona claimed responsibility for the DNC breach 
APRIL –  
Committee (DNC) SEPTEMBER 2016 found evidence of two breaches, attributed to and leaked documents taken from the organization’s network.  
APT28 and APT29.  FireEye analyzed the mal- Guccifer 2.0 continued to leak batches of DNC documents 
ware found on DNC networks and determined through September.
that it was consistent with our previous observa-
tions of APT28 tools.

John Podesta MARCH –  Investigators found that John Podesta, Hillary Throughout October and into early November, WikiLeaks pub-
NOVEMBER 2016 Clinton’s presidential campaign chairman, was lished 34 batches of email correspondence stolen from John 
one of thousands of individuals targeted in a Podesta’s personal email account. Correspondence of other 
mass phishing scheme using shortened URLs individuals targeted in the same phishing campaign, including 
that security researchers attributed to APT28. former Secretary of State Colin Powell and Clinton campaign 
staffer William Rinehart, were published on the  
“DC Leaks” website.

U.S. Democratic  In July, the DCCC announced that it was investi- In August, the Guccifer 2.0 persona contacted reporters cov-
Congressional Campaign MARCH -  gating an ongoing “cybersecurity incident” that ering U.S. House of Representative races to announce newly 
Committee (DCCC) OCTOBER 2016 the FBI believed was linked to the compromise leaked documents from the DCCC pertaining to Democratic 
of the DNC.   House Speaker Nancy Pelosi candidates. From August to October, Guccifer 2.0 posted sev-
later confirmed that the DCCC had suffered a eral additional installments of what appear to be internal DCCC 
network compromise.   Investigators indicated documents on “his” WordPress site.
that the actors may have gained access to DCCC 
systems as early as March.

TV5Monde FEBRUARY 2015, In February, FireEye identified CORESHELL In April 2015, alleged pro-ISIS hacktivist group CyberCaliphate 
APRIL 2015 traffic beaconing from TV5Monde’s network, defaced TV5Monde’s websites and social media profiles and 
confirming that APT28 had compromised TV- forced the company’s 11 broadcast channels offline.  FireEye 
5Monde’s network. identified overlaps between the domain registration details of 
CyberCaliphate’s website and APT28 infrastructure.

Ukrainian Central  Ukrainian officials revealed that the investigation During the May 2014 Ukrainian presidential election, purported 
Election Commission MAY 2014 into the compromise of the CEC’s internal net- pro-Russian hacktivists CyberBerkut conducted a series of mali-
(CEC) work identified malware traced to APT28. cious activities against the CEC including a system compromise, 
data destruction, a data leak, a distributed denial-of-service 
(DDoS) attack, and an attempted defacement of the CEC web-
site with fake election results.

FROM OLYMPIC SLIGHT TO DATA LEAK: 
Investigating APT28 at the World Anti-Doping Agency

As news of the DNC breach spread, APT28 was preparing for another set 
of operations: countering the condemnation that Russia was facing after 
doping allegations and a threatened blanket ban of the Russian team 
from the upcoming Rio Games. Russia, like many nations, has long viewed 
success in the Olympic Games as a source of national prestige and soft 
power on the world stage. The doping allegations and prospective ban 
from the Games further ostracized Russia, and likely provided motivation 
to actively counter the allegations by attempting to discredit anti-doping 
agencies and policies. Our investigation of APT28’s compromise of 
WADA’s network, and our observations of the surrounding events reveal 
how Russia sought to counteract a damaging narrative and delegitimize 
the institutions leveling criticism. 

ALLEGATIONS OF RUSSIAN ATHLETES’ WIDESPREAD DOPING
NOV (2015) JULY 18 AUG 4 

WADA declares the WADA-commissioned Russian athletes were 
Russian Anti-Doping report documents barred from competing 
Agency (RUSADA) non- evidence of Russian in the Olympic Games.
compliant. athletes’ widespread 
doping.

APT28 COMPROMISES WADA
EARLY AUG AUG 10 AUG 25-SEP 12

APT28 sends spear APT28 uses a legitimate APT28 gains access 
phishing emails to user account belonging to an International 
WADA employees. to a Russian athlete to Olympic Committee 

log into WADA’s Anti- account created 
Doping Administration specifically for the 2016 
and Management Olympic Games, and 
System (ADAMS) views and downloads 
database. athlete data.

FALSE HACKTIVIST PERSONAS CLAIM TO TARGET WADA, LEAK ATHLETE DATA 
AUG 9 AUG 11 SEP 12 SEP 13 SEP 15-30

The actor  On August 11  “Fancy Bears’ Hack WADA releases a “Fancy Bears’ Hack 
@anpoland, @anpoland threatens Team”, a previously statement confirming Team” releases five 
purporting to  to conduct a DDoS unknown group the breach and additional batches 
represent attack against and purporting to attributes the of medical files for 
“Anonymous Poland,” leak data from WADA, be affiliated with compromise and  high-profile athletes 
claims to have but fails to follow Anonymous, claims theft of athlete from multiple nations, 
defaced the  through on the via Twitter to have medical data  including the U.S., 
WADA website. threats. compromised WADA, to APT28. which had applied 

and directs readers for and received 
to a website hosting Therapeutic Use 
stolen documents. Exemptions (TUEs) 

for medications 
In tweets to otherwise banned 

from competition. 
international 
journalists and  
Twitter accounts  Claiming to support 
that disseminate “fair play and clean 
hacktivist and sport,” Fancy Bears’ 
information security Hack team calls TUEs 
news, “Fancy Bears’ “licenses for doping.”
Hack Team” claims 
to have “proof of 
American athletes 
taking doping.”

Based on this timeline of leak and threatened leak for WADA’s exposure of Russia’s expansive, state-run 
activity, as well as strikingly similar characteristics and doping. The statement prompted denials from the 
distribution methods shared between @anpoland and Russian Government, with Russian sports minister  
“Fancy Bears’ Hack Team,” the same operators are highly Vitaly Mutko asking, “How can you prove that the 
likely behind the two personas. WADA officials, citing hackers are Russian? You blame Russia for everything,  
evidence provided by law enforcement, stated that the it is very in fashion now.”
threat activity originated in Russia, possibly in retaliation 

CONCLUSION

Since releasing our 2014 report, we continue to assess that 
APT28 is sponsored by the Russian Government. We further 
assess that APT28 is the group responsible for the network 
compromises of WADA and the DNC and other entities 
related to the 2016 U.S. presidential election cycle. These 
breaches involved the theft of internal data - mostly emails 
– that was later strategically leaked through multiple forums 
and propagated in a calculated manner almost certainly 
intended to advance particular Russian Government aims. In 
a report released on January 7 2017, the U.S. Directorate of 
National Intelligence described this activity as an “influence 
campaign.” 

This influence campaign - a combination of network 
compromises and subsequent data leaks - aligns closely 
with the Russian military’s publicly stated intentions and 
capabilities. Influence operations, also frequently called 
“information operations,” have a long history of inclusion 
in Russian strategic doctrine, and have been intentionally 
developed, deployed, and modernized with the advent of 
the internet. The recent activity in the U.S. is but one of 
many instances of Russian Government influence operations 
conducted in support of strategic political objectives, and it 
will not be the last. As the 2017 elections in Europe approach 
- most notably in Germany, France, and the Netherlands - we 
are already seeing the makings of similarly concerted efforts.

APPENDIX: 
APT28’s Tools, Tactics, and Operational Changes

In our 2014 report, we identified APT28 as a suspected Russian 
government-sponsored espionage actor. We came to this conclusion 
in part based on forensic details left in the malware that APT28 had 
employed since at least 2007. We have provided an updated version of 
those conclusions, a layout of the tactics that they generally employ, 
as well as observations of apparent tactical shifts.

APT28 employs a suite of malware with features indicative of the group’s 
plans for continued operations, as well as the group’s access to resources 
and skilled developers.  

Key characteristics of APT28’s toolset include:

• A flexible, modular framework that has allowed APT28  
to consistently evolve its toolset since at least 2007. 

• Use of a formal coding environment in which to develop 
tools, allowing the group to create and deploy custom  
modules within its backdoors.

• Incorporation of counter-analysis capabilities including 
runtime checks to identify an analysis environment, obfuscated 
strings unpacked at runtime, and the inclusion of unused 
machine instructions to slow analysis.

• Code compiled during the normal working day in the Moscow 
time zone and within a Russian language build environment. 

OF APT28’S MALWARE SAMPLES COMPILED CONSISTENTLY BUILT 
SAMPLES WERE BETWEEN 8AM AND 6PM MALWARE IN RUSSIAN 
COMPILED DURING  IN THE TIMEZONE THAT LANGUAGE SETTINGS 
THE WORKING WEEK INCLUDES MAJOR RUSSIAN 
CITIES SUCH AS MOSCOW 
AND ST. PETERSBURG

APT28’S MALWARE SUITE
TOOL ROLE AK A

CHOPSTICK backdoor Xagent, webhp, SPLM, (.v2 fysbis)

EVILTOSS backdoor Sedreco, AZZY, Xagent, ADVSTORESHELL, NETUI

GAMEFISH backdoor Sednit, Seduploader, JHUHUGIT, Sofacy

SOURFACE downloader Older version of CORESHELL, Sofacy

credential  
OLDBAIT Sasfis
harvester

CORESHELL downloader Newer version of SOURFACE, Sofacy 

APT28’S OPERATIONAL CHANGES SINCE 2014
APT28 continues to evolve its toolkit and refine its tactics  
in what is almost certainly an effort to protect its operational 
effectiveness in the face of heightened public exposure and 
scrutiny. In addition to the continued evolution of the group’s 
first stage tools, we have also noted APT28:

• Leveraging zero-day vulnerabilities in Adobe Flash Player, 
Java, and Windows, including CVE-2015-1701, CVE-2015-2424, 
CVE-2015-2590, CVE-2015-3043, CVE-2015-5119, and CVE-
2015-7645. 

• Using a profiling script to deploy zero-days and other  
tools more selectively, decreasing the chance that researchers  
and others will gain access to the group’s tools.

• Increasing reliance on public code depositories, such  
as Carberp, PowerShell Empire, P.A.S. webshell, Metasploit 
modules, and others in a likely effort to accelerate their 
development cycle and provide plausible deniability.

• Obtaining credentials through fabricated Google  
App authorization and Oauth access requests that allow  
the group to bypass two-factor authentication and other 
security measures.

• Moving laterally through a network relying only  
on legitimate tools that already exist within the victims’ 
systems, at times forgoing their traditional toolset for the 
duration of the compromise.

These changes are not only indicative of APT28’s skills, 
resourcefulness, and desire to maintain operational 
effectiveness, but also highlight the longevity of the  
group’s mission and its intent to continue its activities  
for the foreseeable future.

APT28 TACTICS
We have observed APT28 rely on four key tactics when attempting  
to compromise intended targets. These include sending spear-phishing 
emails that either deliver exploit documents that deploy malware onto 
a user’s systems, or contain a malicious URL designed to harvest the 
recipients’ email credentials and provide access to the their accounts. 
APT28 has also compromised and placed malware on legitimate websites 
intending to infect site visitors, and has gained access to organizations by 
compromising their web-facing servers

TACTIC
INFECTION WITH MALWARE VIA SPEAR PHISH

Craft exploit document  
with enticing lure content.

Send exploit document 
to victim.

Victim opens document, 
and malware is installed by 
exploiting a vulnerability

(e.g., ARM-NATO_ 
ENGLISH_30_NOV_2016.
doc leveraged an Adobe Flash 
exploit, CVE-2016-7855, 
to install GAMEFISH 
targeted machine).

TACTIC
WEBMAIL ACCESS VIA SPEAR-PHISH

Register a domain spoofing a webmail service  
or an organization’s webmail portal 
(e.g., 0nedrive-0ffice365[.]com).

Send email to victims  
warning of security risk 
and asking them to enable 
security service.

Recipient visits fake login page 
and enters credentials.

Person is asked to authorize 
application to view mail 
and gives access.

APT28 uses stolen 
credentials to access 
mailbox and read email.

APT28 leverages OAuth 
privileges given to malicious 
application to read email.

TACTIC
INFECTION WITH MALWARE VIA STRATEGIC  
WEB COMPROMISE (SWC)

Compromise a legitimate site and set up 
malicious iFrame.

Users of the site are redirected using malicious 
iFrame and profiled

(e.g, this technique was used  
to compromise and infect visitors to numerous 
Polish Government websites in 2014).

Exploit is served to users matching the target profile  
and malware is installed on their system.

TACTIC
ACCESS THROUGH INTERNET-FACING SERVERS

Network reconnaissance to find vulnerable software.

Exploitation of previously known vulnerabilities  
present on unpatched systems.

Leverage initial compromise to access other systems  
and move deeper into the victim network.