Breadcrumbs Of CIA And DNC Hackers Left At The Same Chinese Company

At the turn of the year, deep in the digital bowels of a Chinese aerospace and military conglomerate, a computer server had some unwelcome guests who'd left their belongings behind. Not clothing, keys, or wallets, but cyberespionage tools believed to have been created by intelligence agencies of the United States and Russia.

That's what Colorado native Kurt Baumgartner, a researcher at Moscow-based Kaspersky (yes, the same cybersecurity company the U.S. government has banned over fears of links to the Kremlin), came across in his research this winter. It marks one of the more astonishing finds in his career, not just because it's rare evidence of Americans and Russians sharing the same space on one Chinese computer. The tools were also linked to both the CIA and the same Kremlin-backed hacking group believed by the U.S. government to have hacked the Democratic National Committee (DNC), known widely as Fancy Bear.

The tools believed to belong to the CIA were silent data sniffers, passively collecting information, though it's unclear just what was siphoned off, Baumgartner told Forbes ahead of his talk at the Kaspersky Analyst Summit in Cancun on Friday. Kaspersky refers to the CIA-linked group as the Lamberts, whilst researchers at Symantec have previously dubbed the same hackers the Longhorn crew. The snooping programs were tied back to code released by Wikileaks in its Vault 7 files.

As for Fancy Bear, which Kaspersky calls Sofacy, it left a handful of its known modules - keyloggers, file stealers, remote access software - on the Chinese server, said Baumgartner. The allegedly Russian spies used a kind of encryption that has only ever been used by them, as far as researchers are aware, hence the ability for Baumgartner to attribute to Fancy Bear. "This is a unique situation - we've never seen overlap, never seen Sofacy attacking the same system as a Lambert," he added. Kaspersky isn't revealing the name of the company, though did say it manufactures aerospace and air defense technologies.

But what isn't clear is whether the CIA and Kremlin-linked hacker crews had separately breached the same Chinese server, or if one was borrowing the code of the other. "It’s a bit of a mystery," the Kaspersky researcher added. He hypothesized that both had breached a vulnerable web application sitting on the server, though he declined to name which one.

The CIA declined to comment on the Kaspersky findings. Russia has previously denied responsibility for the DNC hack.

Olympic attacks too?

As Baumgartner watched Fancy Bear attack organizations across Asia, one of his colleagues, Vitaly Kamluk, had also seen possible activity at a recent major event - the Winter Olympics. Looking at the Olympics Destroyer attacks, which were believed to be responsible for taking out Wi-Fi and broadcasting systems during the opening ceremony in South Korea, Kamluk spotted some hints Fancy Bear could've been involved.

Kamluk said the company had received warnings about destructive malware targeting Olympics systems and infrastructure run by companies helping run the Games, as hackers sought to wipe files and cause havoc. And it appeared the attackers spreading that malware had used similar infrastructure, including VPN and hosting services, to previous Fancy Bear efforts. The Washington Post had also recently reported on the claims of U.S. intelligence officials that Russia was responsible for the hacks and had tried to make it appear North Korea was to blame. But, Kamluk admitted, it was far from certain Fancy Bear was involved in an attack that incorporated a so-called "false flag" effort, designed to make attribution as difficult as possible.

"The attribution of professional cyberattacks is not only getting difficult, it's getting impossible," Kamluk said Thursday ahead of his presentation at the Cancun event. "It's attribution hell...

"We've seen those tiny traits that were used previously by a Sofacy actor... To say this is Sofacy behind it, we need more time to pass."

Nevertheless, it'd be a surprise if Russian hackers weren't active around the Winter Olympics. In February, Dmitri Alperovitch, co-founder and CTO at CrowdStrike, told Forbes he'd seen some indications Fancy Bear had targeted the Olympics, but rather than trying to cause destruction as in the previously-documented attacks, it was following its typical modus operandi of quietly carrying out espionage operations.