2018/7/30 Russian APT28 espionage group targets democratic Senator Claire McCaskillSecurity Affairs

MUST RHEHAoomDmeeTe nC sy boCfe flry aCbwresim irne  SCamri sCmuynbege Sr mw aarrtCTfahyrinebgse Hr  uAwbP eTaxprfoas Der asetmaa Br t rheoaAmcPhe Tto  D eeDp aWteab Br Deiagictahl ID  D Heacekpin gWe Hback tivDisSmigeairtcah I.nl.. tIeDllige nce  
Internet of Things  Laws and regulations  Malware  Mobile  Reports  Security  Social Networks  Terrorism

Hacking  Hacktivism  Intelligence  Internet of Things  Laws and regulations  Malware  
EXTENDED COOKIE POLICY  Contact me

Mobile  Reports  Security  Social Networks  Terrorism  EXTENDED COOKIE POLICY  

Contact me

   
Russian APT28 espionage group targets

Sponsored Content

democratic Senator Claire McCaskill See Also

July 28, 2018  By Pierluigi Paganini 1 Microsoft New Releases a

Like 23
2 Microsoft Encarta Premium a

3 Phishing Scams a
The Russia-linked APT28 group targets Senator

Claire McCaskill and her staff as they gear up 4 Build Your Own Website a

for her 2018 re-election campaign.

The Russian APT group tracked as Fancy Bear (aka APT28, Pawn Storm, Sofacy Digging the Deep Web: Exploring the dark

Group, Sednit, and STRONTIUM), that operated under the Russian military agency GRU, continues side of the web

to target US politicians.

This time the target is Senator Claire McCaskill and her staff as they gear up for her 2018 re-election
campaign.

The news was reported by The Daily Beast, McCaskill always expressed criticism of Russia and its
aggressive strategy in the cyberspace. McCaskill has repeatedly accused the Russian Government
of “cyber warfare against our democracy,” she defined President Vladimir Putin as a “thug” and a
“bully.”

Russian cyberspies launched spear-phishing attacks against the member of the staff aimed at
stealing their credentials, a tactic already used against Hillary Clinton campaign manager John
Podesta in 2016.

The phishing messages contained fake notifications instructing the victims to change their Microsoft
Exchange passwords.

“The attempt against McCaskill’s office was a variant of the password-stealing technique used by
#infosec16 SecurityAffairs Best European

Russia’s so-called “Fancy Bear” hackers against Clinton’s campaign chairman, John Podesta, in
Personal Security Blog

2016.” reads the report published by The Daily Beast.

“The hackers sent forged notification emails to Senate targets claiming the target’s Microsoft
Exchange password had expired, and instructing them to change it. If the target clicked on the link,
he or she was taken to a convincing replica of the U.S. Senate’s Active Directory Federation Services
(ADFS) login page, a single sign-on point for e-mail and other services.”

This site uses cookies, including for analytics, personalization, and advertising purposes. For more information or to change your cookie settings, click here. If
you continue to browse this site without changing your cookie settings, you agree to this use. Accept  Read More

https://securityaffairs.co/wordpress/74843/cyber-warfare-2/apt28-targeted-senator-mccaskill.html 1/4



2018/7/30 Russian APT28 espionage group targets democratic Senator Claire McCaskillSecurity Affairs

HHoommee  C ybCery Cbreimre Cri Cmybeer w arCfayreber  AwPTarfa Draeta B reaAcPhT  D eeDp aWteab Br Deiagictahl ID  D Heacekpin gWe Hback tivDismigita Inl tIeDllige nce

Internet of Things  Laws and regulations  Malware  Mobile  Reports  Security  Social Networks  Terrorism
Hacking  Hacktivism  Intelligence  Internet of Things  Laws and regulations  Malware  

EXTENDED COOKIE POLICY  Contact me

Mobile  Reports  Security  Social Networks  Terrorism  EXTENDED COOKIE POLICY  

Contact me

In July, Microsoft helped the US Government is protecting at least three 2018 midterm election
candidates from attacks of Russian cyberspies.

The hackers sent spear-phishing messages to the candidates, the messages included links to a fake
Microsoft website used by the cyberspies to trick victims into providing their credentials.

“Earlier this year, we did discover that a fake Microsoft domain had been established as the landing
page for phishing attacks,” said Tom Burt, Microsoft’s vice president for customer security.

“And we saw metadata that suggested those phishing attacks were being directed at three
candidates who are all standing for election in the midterm elections.”

Once Microsoft discovered the phishing website it has taken down it and helped the US government
to “avoid anybody being infected by that particular attack.”

“In October, Microsoft wrested control of one of the spoofed website addresses—
adfs.senate.qov.info. Seizing the Russians’ malicious domain names has been easy for Microsoft
since August 2017, when a federal judge in Virginia issued a permanent injunction against the GRU +Pierluigi Paganini

hackers, after Microsoft successfully sued them as unnamed “John Doe” defendants.” continues the
report. Pierluigi Paganini is member of the

ENISA (European Union Agency for
Microsoft made sinkholing of the website, in this way it was able to track victims of the attacks that
were redirected to the phishing attack. Network and Information Security)

)Threat Landscape Stakeholder
The Daily Beast identified McCaskill as a target while investigating statements made by Microsoft VP

Group, member of Cyber G7
Tom Burt during his speech at the Aspen Security Forum.

Workgroup of the Italian Ministry of

Microsoft attributed the attacks to Russian APT28 group. Foreign Affairs and International

Cooperation, Director of the Master
McCaskill released a statement confirming that cyberattack was unsuccessful.

in Cyber Security at the Link Campus

“Russia continues to engage in cyber warfare against our democracy. I will continue to speak out and University. He is also a Security
press to hold them accountable,” McCaskill said. Evangelist, Security Analyst and

“While this attack was not successful, it is outrageous that they think they can get away with this. I Freelance Writer. Editor-in-Chief at

will not be intimidated. I’ve said it before and I will say it again, Putin is a thug and a bully.” "Cyber Defense Magazine",

See Also
Sponsored Content

1. Microsoft New Releases a

2. Microsoft Encarta Premium a

3. Online Photo Gallery a

4. Social Media Tracking a

5. Network Security Training a
This site uses cookies, including for analytics, personalization, and advertising purposes. For more information or to change your cookie settings, click here. If

you continue to browse this site without changing your cookie settings, you agree to this use. Accept  Read More

https://securityaffairs.co/wordpress/74843/cyber-warfare-2/apt28-targeted-senator-mccaskill.html 2/4



2018/7/30 Russian APT28 espionage group targets democratic Senator Claire McCaskillSecurity Affairs
Pierluigi Paganini See Also

HHoommee  C ybCery Cbreimre Cri Cmybeer w arCfayreber  AwPTarfa Draeta B reaAcPhT  D eeDp aWteab Br Deiagictahl ID  D Heacekpin gWe Hback tivDismigita Inl tIeDllige nce

(Security Affairs – McInCtaersnkeiltl ,o Af PTTh2in8g) s  Laws and regulations  Malware  Mobile  Reports  S1ecuMritiycros oSoftc Niale Nwe Rtweolerkasses Terrorism
a

Hacking  Hacktivism  Intelligence  Internet of Things  Laws and regulations  Malware  
EXTENDED COOKIE POLICY  Contact me

 AMPTo2b8 ileCy berReseppioonargtes  FASNeCcY uBrEiAtyR  HaScokicngial NMceCtawskoilrlksPie rluTigei Prraogarnisinmi  EX2TEMNicDroEsoDft  CEnOcaOrtKa IPEr ePmOiuLmICY  
a

politics Russia Security Affairs Contact me

3 Phishing Scams a

 
SHARE ON             

4 Online Photo Gallery a

Pierluigi Paganini  5 Social Media Tracking a

Pierluigi Paganini is member of the ENISA (European Union Agency for Network
and Information Security) Threat Landscape Stakeholder Group and Cyber G7 6 Network Security Training a
Group, he is also a Security Evangelist, Security Analyst and Freelance Writer.
Editor-in-Chief at "Cyber Defense Magazine", Pierluigi is a cyber security expert
with over 20 years experience in the field, he is Certified Ethical Hacker at EC 7 G-String Monokinis a

Council in London. The passion for writing and a strong belief that security is
founded on sharing and awareness led Pierluigi to find the security blog
"Security Affairs" recently named a Top National Security Resource for US. 8 Build Your Own Website a

Pierluigi is a member of the "The Hacker News" team and he is a writer for
some major publications in the field such as Cyber War Zone, ICTTF, Infosec
Island, Infosec Institute, The Hacker News Magazine and for many other
Security magazines. Author of the Books "The Deep Dark Web" and “Digital Sponsored Content

Virtual Currency and Bitcoin”.
 Sponsored Content

Sponsored Content

Promote your solutions on Security Affairs

 PREVIOUS ARTICLE
Microsoft revealed details of a supply NEXT ARTICLE

chain attack at unnamed Maker of PDF Google bans cryptocurrency mining 
Editor apps from the official Play Store

 

YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE

 

Tens of flaws in Samsung

SmartThings Hub expose smart
FELIXROOT Backdoor is back in a home to attack
new fresh spam campaign July 30, 2018  By Pierluigi Paganini

July 30, 2018  By Pierluigi Paganini

This site uses cookies, including for analytics, personalization, and advertising purposes. For more information or to change your cookie settings, click here. If
you continue to browse this site without changing your cookie settings, you agree to this use. Accept  Read More

https://securityaffairs.co/wordpress/74843/cyber-warfare-2/apt28-targeted-senator-mccaskill.html 3/4



2018/7/30 Russian APT28 espionage group targets democratic Senator Claire McCaskillSecurity Affairs

HHoommee  C ybCery Cbreimre Cri Cmybeer w arCfayreber  AwPTarfa Draeta B reaAcPhT  D eeDp aWteab Br Deiagictahl ID  D Heacekpin gWe Hback tivDismigita Inl tIeDllige nce

Internet of Things  Laws and regulations  Malware  Mobile  Reports  Security  Social Networks  Terrorism
Hacking  Hacktivism  Intelligence  Internet of Things  Laws and regulations  Malware  

EXTENDED COOKIE POLICY  Contact me

Mobile  Reports  Security  Social Networks  Terrorism  EXTENDED COOKIE POLICY  
Copyright 2015 Security Affairs by Pierluigi Paganini All Right Reserved. Back to top 

Contact me

This site uses cookies, including for analytics, personalization, and advertising purposes. For more information or to change your cookie settings, click here. If
you continue to browse this site without changing your cookie settings, you agree to this use. Accept  Read More

https://securityaffairs.co/wordpress/74843/cyber-warfare-2/apt28-targeted-senator-mccaskill.html 4/4