2018/7/31 Ukraine Says It Stopped a VPNFilter Attack on a Chlorine Distillation Station

Home  News  Security  Ukraine Says It Stopped a VPNFilter Attack on a Chlorine Distillation Station  79 28   

Ukraine Says It Stopped a VPNFilter Attack on a
Chlorine Distillation Station

By Catalin Cimpanu  July 12, 2018 07:12 PM 0

The Ukrainian Secret Service (SBU) said today it stopped a cyber-attack with the
VPNFilter malware on a chlorine distillation plant in the village of Aulska, in the
Dnipropetrovsk region.

"The continuation of the cyberattack could have led to a breakdown of
technological processes and possible crash," the SBU said today in a press release
in which it accused Russia of operating the malware and launching the attack.

No other technical details were included in the SBU announcement in regards to
how the cyber-attack unfolded.

Malware infected plant's routers
VPNFilter is a malware strain that targets a large number of router models. It's a
modular threat that can survive router reboots and that can monitor and intercept
traffic passing through the router and look for signs of traffic meant for Modbus-
based industrial SCADA equipment. The malware can also temporarily brick the
device it infects.

In the case reported by the SBU, the malware has most likely infected the chlorine
distillation station's networking equipment.

The danger here lies in the malware's ability to detect a "sensitive" target and warn
its operators, who can use it to pivot inside the infected organization and launch
further attacks. 

https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/ukraine-says-it-stopped-a-vpnfilter-attack-on-a-chlorine-distillation-station/ 1/7



2018/7/31 Ukraine Says It Stopped a VPNFilter Attack on a Chlorine Distillation Station

The group behind VPNFilter isn't your regular botnet herder, but an advanced
nation-state actor, known as APT28, according to the FBI, and believed to be a unit
of Russia's military intelligence services.

Chlorine station makes a perfect target
Ever since its silent war with Russia that started in 2014 after Russia's annexation
of Crimea, Ukraine has been under a barrage of cyber-attacks, such as the
BlackEnergy attacks against its power grid in 2015 and 2016, and the NotPetya and
Bad Rabbit ransomware outbreaks in 2017, all believed to been carried out by
Russia.

VPNFilter was supposed to be this year's next giant cyber-attack aimed at Ukraine,
but security firms detected the 500,000-strong botnet before it was deployed in a
full-scale attack.

The FBI took over the original VPNFilter botnet's command and control servers
days after it was discovered, but APT28 started building a new one weeks later.

It is unclear if VPNFilter infection at the Aulska chlorine station was an intentional
attack or just an accidental infection, but it would have made a perfect target to
attack as Ukrainian news outlets report that it is the country's only chlorine
distillation station.

The plant's chlorine product is used across Ukraine for drinking water and sewage
treatment (chlorination). Shutting down the plant would cause the type of damage
previous cyber-attacks on the Ukraine have sought to inflict.

But at the time of writing, there is no evidence to suggest this was a malicious and
orchestrated attack. The VPNFilter malware spreads by randomly scanning all
Internet IPv4 addresses, and it most likely landed on the plant's network by chance
and because of routers running vulnerable firmware.

Nonetheless, the alarming tone of the SBU press release is justified knowing how
dangerous VPNFilter and the group behind can be.

Related Articles:
The VPNFilter Botnet Is Attempting a Comeback

VPNFilter Can Also Infect ASUS, D-Link, Huawei, Ubiquiti, UPVEL, and ZTE
Devices

Reboot Your Router to remove VPNFilter? Why It's Not Enough

Microsoft Says It Blocked Attempts at Hacking Midterm Campaigns

Router Crapfest: Malware Author Builds 18,000-Strong Botnet in a Day

ICS  ROUTER  RUSSIA  UKRAINE  VPNFILTER

 
    

https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/ukraine-says-it-stopped-a-vpnfilter-attack-on-a-chlorine-distillation-station/ 2/7



2018/7/31 Ukraine Says It Stopped a VPNFilter Attack on a Chlorine Distillation Station

CATALIN CIMPANU   
Catalin Cimpanu is the Security News Editor for Bleeping Computer, where he covers
topics such as malware, breaches, vulnerabilities, exploits, hacking news, the Dark Web,
and a few more. Catalin previously covered Web & Security news for Softpedia between
May 2015 and October 2016. The easiest way to reach Catalin is via his XMPP/Jabber
address at campuscodi@xmpp.is. For other contact methods, please visit Catalin's author
page.

  PREVIOUS ARTICLE NEXT ARTICLE 

Post a Comment Community Rules

You need to login in order to post a comment

Login

Not a member yet? Register Now

You may also like:



https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/ukraine-says-it-stopped-a-vpnfilter-attack-on-a-chlorine-distillation-station/ 3/7



2018/7/31 Ukraine Says It Stopped a VPNFilter Attack on a Chlorine Distillation Station

RECOMMENDED VIDEOS

macOS Bug Let's Take a Look
Demo of No at the Image

macOS High Anti-Israel
Sierra Bug IsraBye Data

Unwanted Add Extension to
Chrome Leave

VIEW MORE

POPULAR STORIES

Pentagon Creates 'Do Not
Buy' List of Chinese and
Russian Software Providers



https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/ukraine-says-it-stopped-a-vpnfilter-attack-on-a-chlorine-distillation-station/ 4/7



2018/7/31 Ukraine Says It Stopped a VPNFilter Attack on a Chlorine Distillation Station

Windows 10 Maps App
Updated With Several New
Features for Insiders

NEWSLETTER SIGN
UP

To receive periodic
updates and news from

BleepingComputer,
please use the form

below.
Email Address...

Submit



https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/ukraine-says-it-stopped-a-vpnfilter-attack-on-a-chlorine-distillation-station/ 5/7



2018/7/31 Ukraine Says It Stopped a VPNFilter Attack on a Chlorine Distillation Station

NEWSLETTER SIGN UP

Email Address...  
SUBMIT

Follow us:      
    

MAIN SECTIONS
News
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
File Database
Glossary
COMMUNITY
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
USEFUL RESOURCES 
Welcome Guide

https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/ukraine-says-it-stopped-a-vpnfilter-attack-on-a-chlorine-distillation-station/ 6/7



2018/7/31 Ukraine Says It Stopped a VPNFilter Attack on a Chlorine Distillation Station
Sitemap
COMPANY
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog

Terms of Use  - Privacy Policy

Copyright @ 2003 - 2018 Bleeping Computer® LLC - All Rights Reserved



https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/ukraine-says-it-stopped-a-vpnfilter-attack-on-a-chlorine-distillation-station/ 7/7