2018/12/14 Breadcrumbs Of CIA And DNC Hackers Left At The Same Chinese Company

3,567 views | Mar 9, 2018, 12:00pm

Breadcrumbs Of CIA And DNC
Hackers Left At The Same Chinese
Company

Thomas Brewster Forbes Staff
Security
I cover crime, privacy and security in digital and physical forms.

Are American and Russian hackers sitting on the same server in China? Fresh evidence hints at a
possibly unprecedented event in cyberespionage. (Photo by Olivier Doulier - Pool/Getty Images)

At the turn of the year, deep in the digital bowels of a Chinese aerospace and
military conglomerate, a computer server had some unwelcome guests who'd left
their belongings behind. Not clothing, keys, or wallets, but cyberespionage tools
believed to have been created by intelligence agencies of the United States and
Russia.

That's what Colorado native Kurt Baumgartner, a researcher at Moscow-based
Kaspersky (yes, the same cybersecurity company the U.S. government has banned
over fears of links to the Kremlin), came across in his research this winter. It
marks one of the more astonishing finds in his career, not just because it's rare
evidence of Americans and Russians sharing the same space on one Chinese
computer. The tools were also linked to both the CIA and the same Kremlin-
backed hacking group believed by the U.S. government to have hacked the
Democratic National Committee (DNC), known widely as Fancy Bear.

The tools believed to belong to the CIA were silent data sniffers, passively
collecting information, though it's unclear just what was siphoned off,
Baumgartner told Forbes ahead of his talk at the Kaspersky Analyst Summit in

https://www.forbes.com/sites/thomasbrewster/2018/03/09/cia-russian-hackers-on-same-china-server-says-kaspersky/#6fc9b09259a3 1/3



2018/12/14 Breadcrumbs Of CIA And DNC Hackers Left At The Same Chinese Company

Cancun on Friday. Kaspersky refers to the CIA-linked group as the
Lamberts, whilst researchers at Symantec have previously dubbed the same
hackers the Longhorn crew. The snooping programs were tied back to code
released by Wikileaks in its Vault 7 files.

As for Fancy Bear, which Kaspersky calls Sofacy, it left a handful of its known
modules - keyloggers, file stealers, remote access software - on the Chinese
server, said Baumgartner. The allegedly Russian spies used a kind of encryption
that has only ever been used by them, as far as researchers are aware, hence the
ability for Baumgartner to attribute to Fancy Bear. "This is a unique situation -
we've never seen overlap, never seen Sofacy attacking the same system as a
Lambert," he added. Kaspersky isn't revealing the name of the company, though
did say it manufactures aerospace and air defense technologies.

But what isn't clear is whether the CIA and Kremlin-linked hacker crews had
separately breached the same Chinese server, or if one was borrowing the code of
the other. "It’s a bit of a mystery," the Kaspersky researcher added. He
hypothesized that both had breached a vulnerable web application sitting on the
server, though he declined to name which one.

YOU MAY ALSO LIKE

The CIA declined to comment on the Kaspersky findings. Russia has previously
denied responsibility for the DNC hack.

Olympic attacks too?

As Baumgartner watched Fancy Bear attack organizations across Asia, one of his
colleagues, Vitaly Kamluk, had also seen possible activity at a recent major event -
- the Winter Olympics. Looking at the Olympics Destroyer attacks, which were
believed to be responsible for taking out Wi-Fi and broadcasting systems during
the opening ceremony in South Korea, Kamluk spotted some hints Fancy Bear
could've been involved.

Kamluk said the company had received warnings about destructive malware
targeting Olympics systems and infrastructure run by companies helping run the
Games, as hackers sought to wipe files and cause havoc. And it appeared the
attackers spreading that malware had used similar infrastructure, including VPN
and hosting services, to previous Fancy Bear efforts. The Washington Post had
also recently reported on the claims of U.S. intelligence officials that Russia was
responsible for the hacks and had tried to make it appear North Korea was to
blame. But, Kamluk admitted, it was far from certain Fancy Bear was involved in
an attack that incorporated a so-called "false flag" effort, designed to make
attribution as difficult as possible.

https://www.forbes.com/sites/thomasbrewster/2018/03/09/cia-russian-hackers-on-same-china-server-says-kaspersky/#6fc9b09259a3 2/3



2018/12/14 Breadcrumbs Of CIA And DNC Hackers Left At The Same Chinese Company

"The attribution of professional cyberattacks is not only getting difficult, it's
getting impossible," Kamluk said Thursday ahead of his presentation at the
Cancun event. "It's attribution hell...

"We've seen those tiny traits that were used previously by a Sofacy actor... To say
this is Sofacy behind it, we need more time to pass."

Nevertheless, it'd be a surprise if Russian hackers weren't active around the
Winter Olympics. In February, Dmitri Alperovitch, co-founder and CTO at
CrowdStrike, told Forbes he'd seen some indications Fancy Bear had targeted the
Olympics, but rather than trying to cause destruction as in the previously-
documented attacks, it was following its typical modus operandi of quietly
carrying out espionage operations.

I cover security and privacy for Forbes. I’ve been breaking news and writing
features on these topics for major publications since 2010. As a freelancer, I
worked for The Guardian, Vice Motherboard, Wired and BBC.com, amongst
many others. I was named BT Security Journalist o... MORE

Got a tip? Get me on Signal on +447837496820 or use SecureDrop to tip anyone
at Forbes. Email at TBrewster@forbes.com or tbthomasbrewster@gmail.com
for PGP mail.

112,330 views | Oct 17, 2018, 10:00am

Choosing Control Over A Big Stake:
What The Founder Of Spikeball
Learned By Walking Away From
$500K

Katherine Love Forbes Staff
Leadership Strategy
I curate and create content focused on careers and leadership.

I am assistant editor on the Forbes Leadership team, curating content about C­
suites, careers and education. Previously at Forbes, I produced content for
Bankable, mobile devices, eBooks and Opinion. Before that, I interned with
Rolling Stone and the Center for Strategic and... MORE

https://www.forbes.com/sites/thomasbrewster/2018/03/09/cia-russian-hackers-on-same-china-server-says-kaspersky/#6fc9b09259a3 3/3