2019/3/25 Russian APT groups target European governments ahead of May ElectionsSecurity Affairs

MUST READ WordPress Social Warfare plugin zero-day exploited in attacks Search...  

Home  Cyber Crime  Cyber warfare  APT  Data Breach  Deep Web  Digital ID  

Hacking  Hacktivism  Intelligence  Internet of Things  Laws and regulations  Malware  

Mobile  Reports  Security  Social Networks  Terrorism  EXTENDED COOKIE POLICY  

Contact me

   
Russian APT groups target European governments

Sponsored Content

ahead of May Elections
1. TOP 10 DISABILITY LAWYERS a

March 22, 2019  By Pierluigi Paganini

2. RETIREMENT INCOME PLANNING a

Russian APT groups are targeting European 3. MEDICARE PART B COST FOR 2019 a

governments for cyber-espionage purposes 4. QUALIFY FOR DISABILITY
BENEFITS a

ahead of the upcoming European elections. 5. BUILD YOUR OWN WEBSITE a

According to experts from FireEye, Russia-linked APT28  
(aka Fancy Bear, Pawn Storm, Sofacy Group, Sednit, and STRONTIUM) and 
Sandworm Team (also TeleBots) cyberespionage groups are targeting European governments for

Digging the Deep Web: Exploring the dark
cyber-espionage purposes ahead of the upcoming European elections.

side of the web

The activity of the Russia-linked groups is focused on NATO member states.

The APT28 group has been active since at least 2007 and it has targeted governments, militaries,
and security organizations worldwide. The group was involved also in the string of attacks that
targeted 2016 Presidential election.

According to a report published by Symantec in October, the group was actively conducting cyber
espionage campaigns against government and military organizations in Europe and South America.

Starting in 2017 and continuing into 2018, the APT28 group returned to covert intelligence gathering
operations in Europe and South America.

The espionage activity on NATO member states has increased significantly since mid-2018, and it is
ongoing. 

FireEye revealed that the two Russia-linked APT groups carried out spear-phishing attacks to trick
victims into revealing government information and credentials.

Experts noticed that the activities of the groups are aligned, but while APT28 was observed using
custom malware and zero-day exploits, the  
Sandworm Team mainly used publicly available hacking tools. 

https://securityaffairs.co/wordpress/82772/apt/russian-apt-groups-may-elections.html 1/3



2019/3/25 Russian APT groups target European governments ahead of May ElectionsSecurity Affairs
“The groups could be trying to gain access to the targeted networks in order to gather information
that will allow Russia to make more informed political decisions, or it could be gearing up to leak data
that would be damaging for a particular political party or candidate ahead of the European elections,”
explained Benjamin Read, senior manager of cyberespionage analysis at FireEye.

“The link between this activity and the European elections is yet to be confirmed, but the multiple
voting systems and political parties involved in the elections creates a broad attack surface for
hackers,” FireEye’s Read said.”

+Pierluigi Paganini
According to The Milpitas, California-based firm, the group also targeted media outlets in France and
Germany, political opposition groups in Russia, and LGBT organizations with links to Russia.

Pierluigi Paganini is member of the
FireEye notified targeted organizations after uncovering the espionage campaigns. ENISA (European Union Agency for

Network and Information Security)
Ad Ad closed by  )Threat Landscape Stakeholder

Stop seeing this ad Group, member of Cyber G7

Why this ad?  Workgroup of the Italian Ministry of

Foreign Affairs and International

Cooperation, Director of the Master

O'Reilly's Graph Databases ­ Free Book in Cyber Security at the Link Campus
Download University. He is also a Security

Evangelist, Security Analyst and
Download

Freelance Writer. Editor-in-Chief at

"Cyber Defense Magazine",
Pierluigi Paganini

(SecurityAffairs – Russian APT group, cyberespionage) Yoroi Blog

 Cyberespionage NATO Pierluigi Paganini Russian APT groups Security Affairs

 
SHARE ON             

Pierluigi Paganini  

Pierluigi Paganini is member of the ENISA (European Union Agency for Network
and Information Security) Threat Landscape Stakeholder Group and Cyber G7
Group, he is also a Security Evangelist, Security Analyst and Freelance Writer. Yoroi Blog
Editor-in-Chief at "Cyber Defense Magazine", Pierluigi is a cyber security expert
with over 20 years experience in the field, he is Certified Ethical Hacker at EC
Council in London. The passion for writing and a strong belief that security is
founded on sharing and awareness led Pierluigi to find the security blog
"Security Affairs" recently named a Top National Security Resource for US. Sponsored Content

Pierluigi is a member of the "The Hacker News" team and he is a writer for
some major publications in the field such as Cyber War Zone, ICTTF, Infosec
Island, Infosec Institute, The Hacker News Magazine and for many other
Security magazines. Author of the Books "The Deep Dark Web" and “Digital
Virtual Currency and Bitcoin”.

 

https://securityaffairs.co/wordpress/82772/apt/russian-apt-groups-may-elections.html 2/3



2019/3/25 Russian APT groups target European governments ahead of May ElectionsSecurity Affairs
Ad

 PREVIOUS ARTICLE NEXT ARTICLE
Medtronic's implantable heart Pwn2Own 2019 Day 3: Experts hacked 

defibrillators vulnerable to hack Tesla 3 browser
 

O'Reilly's Graph Databases ­ Free Book
YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE Download

Master the World of Graph Databases.
 Download the Ebook to Learn How.

Neo4j, Inc.

Download

Federal Emergency Management

Agency’s (FEMA) data leak exposes

data of 2.3M survivors

Microsoft Defender APT now March 24, 2019  By Pierluigi Paganini

protects also macOS

March 24, 2019  By Pierluigi Paganini

Sponsored Content

Sponsored Content

Sponsored Content

Copyright 2015 Security Affairs by Pierluigi Paganini All Right Reserved. Back to top 

Home  Cyber Crime  Cyber warfare  APT  Data Breach  Deep Web  Digital ID  Hacking  Hacktivism  Intelligence

Internet of Things  Laws and regulations  Malware  Mobile  Reports  Security  Social Networks  Terrorism

EXTENDED COOKIE POLICY  Contact me

https://securityaffairs.co/wordpress/82772/apt/russian-apt-groups-may-elections.html 3/3