2018/12/7 Justice Department announces actions to disrupt the VPNFilter botnetSecurity Affairs

MUST RHEHAoomDmeeFr aC cytubCreeryd  CbBrleoimcrke  CCarmi Cmpyabeigenr: Cw AaRrCfRayOrebTBeArT  A dwProTapprfera  Ddruaeptap oB rtrse Aa cdPhoTzen D eeDp aWteab Br Deiagictahl ID  D Heacekpin gWe Hback tivDisSmigeairtcah I.nl.. tIeDllige nce  
Internet of Things  Laws and regulations  Malware  Mobile  Reports  Security  Social Networks  Terrorism

Hacking  Hacktivism  Intelligence  Internet of Things  Laws and regulations  Malware  
EXTENDED COOKIE POLICY  Contact me

Mobile  Reports  Security  Social Networks  Terrorism  EXTENDED COOKIE POLICY  

Contact me

   
Justice Department announces actions to disrupt

Sponsored Content

the VPNFilter botnet   
May 24, 2018  By Pierluigi Paganini Application Developer Jobs a

IT Administrator Jobs a

The Justice Department announced an effort to Safe Account Login a

disrupt the VPNFilter botnet of hundreds of How To Make Money Online a

thousands of infected home and office (SOHO) Earn Money Online a

routers and other networked devices under the

control of a Russia-linked APT group. Digging the Deep Web: Exploring the dark

side of the web
Yesterday Talos and other security firm revealed the discovery of a huge botnet tracked as VPNFilter
composed of more than 500,000 compromised routers and network-attached storage (NAS)
devices, now more details emerged on the case.

The experts believe the VPNFilter was developed by Russia, the associated malware compromised
devices across 54 countries, most of them in Ukraine.

On May 8, Talos researchers observed a spike in VPNFilter infection activity, most infections in
Ukraine and the majority of compromised devices contacted a separate stage 2 C2 infrastructure at
the IP 46.151.209[.]33.

The experts discovered the VPNFilter malware has infected devices manufactured by Linksys,
MikroTik, Netgear, QNAP, and TP-Link.

The US Justice Department announced it had seized a domain used as part of the command and
control infrastructure, it explicitly refers the Russian APT groups (APT28, Pawn Storm, Sandworm,
Fancy Bear and the Sofacy Group) as the operators behind the huge botnet,

“The Justice Department today announced an effort to disrupt a global botnet of hundreds of
thousands of infected home and office (SOHO) routers and other networked devices under the
control of a group of actors known as the “Sofacy Group” (also known as “apt28,” “sandworm,” “x-
agent,” “pawn storm,” “fancy bear” and “sednit”).” reads the press release published by the DoJ.

“Today’s announcement highlights the FBI’s ability to take swift action in the fight against cybercrime
and our commitment to protecting the American people and their devices,” said Assistant Director
Scott Smith. “By seizing a domain used by malicious cyber actors in their botnet campaign, the FBI
has taken a critical step in minimizing the impact of the malware attack. While this is an important first +Pierluigi Paganini

step, the FBI’s work is not done. The FBI, along with our domestic and international partners, will
continue our efforts to identify and expose those responsible for this wave of malware.” Pierluigi Paganini is member of the

ENISA (European Union Agency for

https://securityaffairs.co/wordpress/72851/apt/vpnfilter-botnet-doj.html 1/4



2018/12/7 Justice Department announces actions to disrupt the VPNFilter botnetSecurity Affairs
The VPNFilter botnet targets SOHO routers and network-access storage (NAS) devices and uses

HHoommee  C ybCery Cbreimre Cri Cmybeer w arCfayreber  AwPTarfa Draeta B reaAcPhT  D eeDp aWteab Br Deiagictahl ID  ND Heetawcekopinrk gW ane dHb aIncfk otirvmDisamigtioitna  InSl teIeDclliugrei ntyc)e
several stages of malware. The experts highlighted that the second stage of malware that

Internet of Things  Laws and regulations  Malware  Mobile  Reports  Se)cTuhrriteyat L Saoncdiaslc Naeptew oSrtkaskeh oTeldrreorrism
impleHmeanctsk minalgiciou s cHapaacbiklittieivs icsamn be  cleIanretde flrloimg ean dceveice  by Irnebtoeortnineg tit , owfh ilTe hthien figrsst sta geLaws aGnrdo urpe, gmuelamtbieorn osf C ybMer aGlw7 are  
of malware implements a persistence mechanism. EXTENDED COOKIE POLICY  Contact me

Workgroup of the Italian Ministry of
Mobile  Reports  Security  Social Networks  Terrorism  EXTENDED COOKIE POLICY  

The Justice Department had obtained a warrant authorizing the FBI to seize the domain that is part Foreign Affairs and International
of the command and control infrastructure of the VPNFilter botnet. Contact me Cooperation, Director of the Master

Technically the operation conducted by the US authorities is called “sink holing,” the seizure of the in Cyber Security at the Link Campus

domain will allow law enforcement and security experts to analyze the traffic associated with the University. He is also a Security

botnet to gather further info on the threat and temporarily neutralize it. Evangelist, Security Analyst and

Freelance Writer. Editor-in-Chief at
“In order to identify infected devices and facilitate their remediation, the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the
Western District of Pennsylvania applied for and obtained court orders, authorizing the FBI to seize a "Cyber Defense Magazine",

domain that is part of the malware’s command-and-control infrastructure.” continues the DoJ.
Yoroi Blog

“This will redirect attempts by stage one of the malware to reinfect the device to an FBI-controlled
server, which will capture the Internet Protocol (IP) address of infected devices, pursuant to legal
process. A non-profit partner organization, The Shadowserver Foundation, will disseminate the IP
addresses to those who can assist with remediating the VPNFilter botnet, including foreign CERTs
and internet service providers (ISPs).”  

The owners of the compromised SOHO and NAS devices should reboot their devices as soon as
possible, the operation will temporarily remove the second stage malware and will cause the first
stage malware to connect the C&C domain for instructions.

“Although devices will remain vulnerable to reinfection with the second stage malware while
connected to the Internet, these efforts maximize opportunities to identify and remediate the
infection worldwide in the time available before Sofacy actors learn of the vulnerability in their
command-and-control infrastructure.” continues the DoJ.

Yoroi Blog

Sponsored Content

Experts are particularly concerned by the destructive features implemented by the malware that
could allow attackers to burn users’ devices to cover up their tracks.

Experts believe that the attack could be launched by threat actors during the Ukrainian celebration
of the Constitution Day, last year the NotPetya wiper attack was launched on the same period.

Both Justice and Cisco said they were releasing details of the problem before having found a strong,
permanent fix. Justice said that by seizing control of one of the domains involved in running

https://securityaffairs.co/wordpress/72851/apt/vpnfilter-botnet-doj.html 2/4



2018/12/7 Justice Department announces actions to disrupt the VPNFilter botnetSecurity Affairs
VNPFilter, it will give owners of infected routers a chance to reboot them, forcing them to begin

HHoommee  C ybCery Cbreimre Cri Cmybeer w arCfayreber  AwPTarfa Draeta B reaAcPhT  D eeDp aWteab Br Deiagictahl ID  D Heacekpin gWe Hback tivDismigita Inl tIeDllige nce
communicating with the now-neutralized command domain. IT Administrator Jobs

Internet of Things  Laws and regulations  Malware  Mobile  Reports  Security  Social Networks  Terrorism

The vHulnaecrakbiilnityg will  remHaainc, Jkutsitvicies msaid,  butI nthtee mlloigvee wnicll aellow  thIenmt emronree ttim oef t oT idheinntigfys and Laws and regulations  Malware  
EXTLEiNfeD LEDoc CkO SOeKcIuEr iPtyOLICY  Contact me

intervene in other parts of the network.
Mobile  Reports  Security  Social Networks  Terrorism  EXTENDED COOKIE POLICY  

Earn Money Online
1. Discount Home Office Furniture a Contact me

2. Home And Business a System Administrator Job

3. Cheap Office Furnitures a Application Developer Jobs

4. Quality Home Office Furniture a
Best Affiliate Programs

5. Home And Office a

Graphic Designer Jobs

Pierluigi Paganini
How to Make Money Online

(Security Affairs – VPNFilter botnet, hacking)

Safe Account Login
 botnet Hacking malware Pierluigi Paganini Russia Security Affairs

Ukraine VPNFilter Identity Theft Protection

 
SHARE ON             

Sponsored Content

Pierluigi Paganini  

Pierluigi Paganini is member of the ENISA (European Union Agency for Network Sponsored Content

and Information Security) Threat Landscape Stakeholder Group and Cyber G7
Group, he is also a Security Evangelist, Security Analyst and Freelance Writer.
Editor-in-Chief at "Cyber Defense Magazine", Pierluigi is a cyber security expert
with over 20 years experience in the field, he is Certified Ethical Hacker at EC Sponsored Content

Council in London. The passion for writing and a strong belief that security is
founded on sharing and awareness led Pierluigi to find the security blog
"Security Affairs" recently named a Top National Security Resource for US.
Pierluigi is a member of the "The Hacker News" team and he is a writer for
some major publications in the field such as Cyber War Zone, ICTTF, Infosec
Island, Infosec Institute, The Hacker News Magazine and for many other
Security magazines. Author of the Books "The Deep Dark Web" and “Digital
Virtual Currency and Bitcoin”.

 

 PREVIOUS ARTICLE
Kaspersky discovered a backdoor NEXT ARTICLE
account and other issues in D-Link Xenotime, Threat actors Behind Triton 

DIR-620 Routers Malware broadens its activities
 

YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE

https://securityaffairs.co/wordpress/72851/apt/vpnfilter-botnet-doj.html 3/4



2018/12/7 Justice Department announces actions to disrupt the VPNFilter botnetSecurity Affairs

HHoommee  C ybCery Cbreimre Cri Cmybeer w arCfayreber  AwPTarfa Draeta B reaAcPhT  D eeDp aWteab Br Deiagictahl ID  D Heacekpin gWe Hback tivDismigita Inl tIeDllige nce
 

Internet of Things  Laws and regulations  Malware  Mobile  Reports  Security  Social Networks  Terrorism
Hacking  Hacktivism  Intelligence  Internet of Things  Laws and regulations  Malware  

EXTENDED COOKIE POLICY  Contact me

Mobile  Reports  Security  Social Networks  Terrorism  EXTENDED COOKIE POLICY  

Contact me

Ukraine’s SBU: Russia carried out a
Evidence in Marriott’s subsidiary cyberattack on Judiciary Systems
Starwood hack points out to China

December 6, 2018  By Pierluigi Paganini
intel

December 6, 2018  By Pierluigi Paganini

Copyright 2015 Security Affairs by Pierluigi Paganini All Right Reserved. Back to top 

https://securityaffairs.co/wordpress/72851/apt/vpnfilter-botnet-doj.html 4/4