APT-28

APT28 Targets
 Financial markets: 

zero day hashes 
released

1 root9b.com



APT-28 

“In the last year alone Russian hackers have reportedly 
stolen up to 900 million dollars from banks around the world.” 

May 10, 2015 root9B: The Threat Defiance Report

APT 28     targets  Financial  Markets
R O O T 9 B  R E L E A S E S  Z E R O  D A Y  H A S H E S

Cybersecurity experts are increasingly concerned industry. As Cyber Threat analysts continued to 
about the threat posed by Russian hacking follow the indicators, they uncovered a global 
groups. Besides well-known events such as attack in the making, and took steps to protect not 

the attacks against Estonia, Georgia, and Ukraine; only our clients, but other identified victims as well. 
recent headlines have seen Russian hacking syndicates 
credited with targeting NATO officials at conferences, Sofacy, Sednit, Sourface, APT-28, and a host of other 
stealing hundreds of millions from banks, and names are all used to describe this particularly prolific 
successfully penetrating the White House unclassified and superbly talented group of Russian hackers, which 
computer network. The increase in cyber-exploits is has strongly suspected ties to Russian intelligence 
also accompanied by a much more aggressive Russian services.   In the last year alone Russian hackers have 
foreign policy, which has seen them invade Ukraine reportedly stolen up to 900 million dollars from banks 
and literally seize control of sovereign territory in around the world.  Over the past three to five years 
Crimea.  So it should not surprise anyone that just they have built the largest botnets ever discovered, and 
as nuclear capable Russian bombers are increasingly stolen the log-in and password credentials to literally
penetrating foreign airspace, their cyber-warriors 
appear to be ramping up their intrusions as well. 
But this time, perhaps for the first time, root9B has 
managed to find where they were hiding and identified 
effective defenses against their intended attacks. This is 
what happened in late April and early May of this year.

Our firm of cybersecurity experts, staffed by 
veterans from the United States Department of 
Defense, identified suspicious activity within one 
of our client’s networks; a threat which on closer 
inspection bore the unique signature of a group of 
Russian hackers well-known in the cyber-security 

2 root9b.com



APT-28

May 10, 2015 root9B: The Threat Defiance Report

tens of millions of online accounts. Well known for Sofacy’s unique signatures is a perfect cover behind 
their ability to infiltrate and remain undiscovered which the Russian Government prefers to remain.
in networks for long periods of time, they may be 
the most successful group of hackers in the world. The Defenders
Whereas previous attacks have been attributed and Started in 2012 and staffed almost entirely by former 
analyzed only after they have run their course, this United States Department of Defense civilians and 
was the first and only known Sofacy attack to be military cyber-warriors, root9B brings a unique 
discovered, identified, and reported – all before it base of knowledge and experience to the task of 
could even begin!  The analysts and tools that enabled securing corporate networks. This comes at a time 
this to happen are unique and proprietary. This report when the demand for services is stronger than ever 
documents the first ever operation to use threat and increasing daily. Calling on years of collective 
intelligence and adversary tactics to discover and experience in positions that placed their analysts at 
reveal the prepositioning of Sofacy zero-day malware. the tip of the cyber-spear, root9B has developed a 
This document also includes the reporting of unique approach to the problem of cyber-defense. 
previously unknown malware  indicators and hashes. Understanding that the present tools are failing at 

an alarming rate, they have developed methods and 
The Threat software applications which seek to augment, rather 

than replace, existing cyber-security defenses.  The 
Russian President Vladimir Putin recently described problem is not that traditional methods do not 
the Internet as “an invention of the CIA.”  But the work. It is that hackers are becoming increasingly 
group most widely associated with his government sophisticated and able to generate new threats faster 
dominates the world of industrial scale hacking.  First than ever before.  Standard network security systems 
discovered circa 2007 using security vulnerabilities in typically fail against what are known as “zero-day 
Microsoft Windows, Sofacy has gone on to develop and threats.”  Zero-day is a term that refers to a new kind 
launch truly enormous attacks exploiting numerous of hacking exploit that has never been seen before, 
applications including Adobe’s Acrobat, Microsoft and is therefore not detected by standard virus and 
Excel, and others.  Some attacks have focused on the intrusion detection software. Typically, such threats 
sorts of targets that seem likely to be of interest to take an alarmingly long time to detect and eliminate, 
Russian intelligence services.  NATO, defense industry often more than a year.  They were once relatively rare, 
corporations, and government domains of states because it takes a high degree of skill to develop and 
opposed to Russia on various issues have all been, at exploit them. The production and sale on the black 
times, victims of Sofacy.  At other times large banks market has increased exponentially in recent years, 
and private corporations have been hit hard by Sofacy developing into a criminal industry that is placing 
exploits, at a cost of hundreds of millions to the victims. online commerce, as well as national security, at 
Sofacy’s choice of targets has historically been an growing risk. In the time between deployment of a 
interesting mixture that has fueled an ongoing zero-day and its eventual discovery and eradication, 
debate over whether the group is criminal in corporations can suffer enormous losses without 
nature, or actually an agent of a nation-state.  Most even realizing that the threat was ever there. 
cybersecurity analysts have concluded that the group’s 
affiliation with the Russian government is undeniable. To combat threats, root9B realized that technology is 
But there are detractors. Those who argue loudest not the problem.  “Computers don’t attack networks. 
against such assertions cite Sofacy’s prolific criminal People do,” said root9B. You cannot build a better 
profit as evidence that they are most likely not system to stop a determined human, you must think 
agents of the Federal Security Service (FSB); while like the attacker and provide manned cyber defense 
others suppose that the crimes committed bearing operations as the new adaptive security posture. 

root9B operators and software developers designed 
3 root9b.com



APT-28 

May 10, 2015 root9B: The Threat Defiance Report

and constructed proprietary methods of discovering was pointing at a spearfishing domain registered to 
and dealing with adversaries.  With a network defense impersonate a Middle Eastern financial institution 
strategy of pursuit and deterrence in mind, root9B and the domain registration details did not match 
operators conduct Active Adversary Pursuit (HUNT) normal Sofacy operational signatures. That said, the 
operations as a tailored solution for cyber security malicious software certainly did. Members of root9B’s 
teams. Working in concert with traditional network operations team conducted HUNT operations, 
defense appliances that currently reside in our client’s remotely deploying their live memory capability across 
proprietary network, root9B’s HUNT platform delivers the clients proprietary networks to analyze known 
a pro-active defense protection capability to identify, techniques that can evade the most efficient security 
pursue, and mitigate cyber threats. This approach was products on the market. root9B’s capability parses live 
developed by root9B in order to leverage previously memory while the system is running and looks for 
existing security products with client-specific threat indicators of advanced tactics such as code injection 
intelligence and proprietary capabilities that can or security product bypassing. Using a combination 
identify sophisticated vulnerabilities, generate of standard industry tools and proprietary techniques 
actionable intelligence, and install solutions with our analysts began to develop a larger picture of what 
much greater speed and efficiency. was taking place. Immediately, root9B identified that 

preparations were being made for a larger scale attack 
Winning In Advance similar to previous Sofacy attributed exploits, and 

the attack was still in the preparatory stages.  To our 
During the end of April 2015, root9B analysts were analysts, this was a rare opportunity.  “It is rare enough 
conducting routine security analysis to explore and to learn of an attack of this potential magnitude in 
discover new and emerging cyber threats. Threat advance, but to have all of the information necessary 
Analysts discovered what appeared to be a targeted to stop it before it begins is unprecedented,“ said an 
spearfishing domain aimed at a financial institution. unnamed root9B analyst.
The server it was found on raised even more 
questions, because although security experts knew Evidence of intrusion within client networks pointed 
the server as a bad actor, it was generally associated to a specific server, CARBON2U.COM, that had been 
with malware used in nation state attacks.  As analysts previously linked to malicious activity and identified 
continued their work they discovered several more by other security firms as part of the infrastructure 
pieces of  new malware. The malicious code bore utilized by the Sofacy group. Analysts studied the 
specific signatures that have historically been unique remaining domains registered on that server, and 
to only one organization, Sofacy. This malware initially noted that one in particular, CBIUAEBANK.

4 root9b.com



APT-28

May 10, 2015 root9B: The Threat Defiance Report

COM, appeared to be a fake version of CBIUAE.COM, apparently fictitious list of personas used to create 
the actual domain of the website of Commercial and register domains, a pattern emerged. Due to 
Bank International of the United Arab Emirates. the nature of this unique signature, root9B is in the 
Further analysis lead to even more suspicion, and process of further documenting and reporting to the 
those suspicions grew even stronger as they watched proper authorities.
another comparable domain created, CBIUAEBN.
COM.  As analysts passively monitored CARBON2U. The discovery of the hacker’s single mistake in 
COM, they observed as the apparent fake domains tradecraft was indeed a powerful catalyst, and lead 
they were monitoring migrated to other servers; first to the discovery of a treasure trove of new indicators. 
to SITE4NOW.NET and later to OK2HOST.COM. The new discoveries included evidence related to past 
This gave analysts two more suspicious servers to attempts to launch attacks against many of the same 
study, and added considerable data analysis. targets, including the aforementioned Commercial 

Bank International. What the analysts eventually 
root9B analysts began to dissect the data at hand to had was a very detailed view of the specific tactics 
identify common tactics, techniques, and procedures employed by this adversary; and a window into a 
used by the adversaries which could provide further plan for a hack that was even larger than originally 
information about the planned hack, including believed, much larger. Where initially they had only 
information about potential attack vectors. As a single fake domain pointed at CBI, now there were 
root9B analyzed increasing amounts of metadata six additional domains, all used to target this single 
and associated indicators, they were able to identify victim. Many of the fake domains appeared to have 
a very unique signature consistently used by someone been created by several of the same accounts, and open 
involved in setting up the hack. Investigating the source analysis indicated that the names listed for the 

5 root9b.com



APT-28 

May 10, 2015 root9B: The Threat Defiance Report

person registering the addresses was clearly fictitious; 
probably chosen at random from the Internet.

The analysts at root9B understand better than anyone 
the significance of this analysis.  As far as any of them 
know, and it stands to reason that they would, there 
has never been a case of a large-scale attack utilizing 
numerous zero-day exploits that were so thoroughly 
mapped in advance before. The analysts who worked 
this case now understand that the attackers began 
preparations for this campaign in June 2014, a full 
eleven months ago. The design of the hack bears 
striking similarity to the very exploits that have made 
Sofacy so feared and respected.  At least nine months 
of meticulous preparation coupled with one slip of 
tradecraft has enabled root9B to inform potential 
targets prior to the execution of the strategy.

With the exception of CBIUAEONLINE.COM, there key signature of the hackers; a common thread which 
are numerous consistencies amongst the tactics unraveled all of Sofacy’s careful preparation. Often 
employed by the hackers.  The group generates what those wanting to generate a free and anonymous email 
are likely fictitious personalities as the “owners” address will use a false name and address in order to 
of each of the fake domains. All of the fictitious conceal and preserve their true identity.
personalities list the same street address. While they 
change names and house numbers for them, they all The information below dictates open source research 
reside on Cloverdale Lane in DeSoto, Texas.  Analysts on the adversary’s creation of domains. As previously 
noting the similarity did not have to visit the street noted, root9B is in the process of further documenting 
to determine that it was unlikely that they each and reporting probable fictitious personas to the 
resided in different homes on the same street.  In authorities.
fact, even the house numbers changed only slightly 
from one domain to the other. In addition to the DOMAIN: CBIBUAE.COM
links between the addresses, streets, and names, they 
found that the registrant phone numbers were also 
very closely related. The only differences in registrant 
data from one domain to the next involved very slight DOMAIN: CBIUAEONLINE.COM
modifications to the country codes or by changing the 
third digit. This kind of flaw in tradecraft allowed for 
further detailed network analysis.    (suspended-domain)
Further analysis of the street addresses enabled 
root9B to correlate the address and personas listed as DOMAIN: ROYALBSUK.COM
registrants via public records,  doing so showed that 
most of these addresses did not even exist, and the 
few addresses confirmed to physically exist did not 
have residents with the names listed.  This became a 

6 root9b.com



APT-28

May 10, 2015 root9B: The Threat Defiance Report

DOMAIN: CIBUAEONLINE.COM domains closely resembling financial institutions. 
By studying the new persona, root9B discovered 
they had previously created several domains and 
websites, all of which have been flagged as Fake 
Financial Institutions by security analysts. Also 

DOMAIN: CIBUAEONLINEBN.COM identified during this analysis, was the prepositioning 
of a domain targeting the financial institution B-OF-
AMERIC.COM, created in April 2015.  This indicates 
that Bank of America, is among the probable targets. 

DOMAIN: CBIUAEONLINE.COM This same individual has registered numerous other 
fake domains on many more name servers. One of 
these name servers, BULKBREAKERS.COM, contains 
several other international financial institutions.  One 
of those domains, T-D-CANADATRUST.COM, was 

DOMAIN: CBIUAEBANK.COM
Toronto Dominion (TD) Canada Trust.  Among the 
apparent targets of other domains similarly created 
or updated in 2015 are: the United Nations, United 
Nations Children’s Fund, United Bank for Africa, 

DOMAIN: CBIUAEBN.COM Regions Bank, and possibly Commerzbank.

Results
While root9B’s discovery began with servicing 

Correlating the increasing amounts of information, their own customers, their analysis has revealed an 
root9B analysts have determined that the adversary adversary pattern that has enabled the identification 
responsible for the initial attack in June 2014 was of previously unknown target vectors. As root9B 
almost certainly the same, or very closely-related to analysts continued to peel back the layers, it became 
the entity responsible for creating at least two of the more apparent, that this attack was likely associated 
domains in April 2015. The same person was ostensibly with Russian intelligence. The targets included 
responsible for registering the two most recent multiple major financial institutions, as well as the 
domains (CBIUAEBN.COM and CBIUAEBANK. international government domain. In addition to 
COM). Analysts from root9B now believe that the identifying targets, root9B analysts also discovered 
adversary most likely selected this name through indicators of malware, the analysis of which revealed 
an internet search, and that these personas, while several zero-day threats and their corresponding 
possibly real names, are not the true names of those “hashes.” Each new discovery revealed more 
individuals associated with the preparations for this information, enabling a more complete picture to 
attack.  emerge. root9B discovered and analyzed numerous 

other domains being staged or recently created for 
  root9B analysts have also identified an additional the malicious cyber operation. Also  discovered was a 
persona; one that did not appear to directly relate to fatal flaw in the hackers tradecraft that lead to a major 
this attack against CBI UAE Bank, but that carried breakthrough. Research based on the adversary’s flaw 
similar operational tactics to include comparable in tactics showed that there was a strong likelihood of 
street address schemes and the registration of two distinct subgroups, each of which utilized unique 

7 root9b.com



APT-28 

May 10, 2015 root9B: The Threat Defiance Report

methods of cover for their activity.  Each of the two According to their conclusions, root9B analysts expect 
groups also had a unique theme to their target sets. that spear-phishing attacks will begin in the near 
The first seemed to focus on military, diplomatic, future, or may have already commenced.  As root9B 
and media targets, and relied on the cover of proxies continues to work with authorities it is recommended 
and private domain registrations. As documented that the aforementioned financial institutions take 
earlier, the other group used deliberately falsified caution examining any and all correspondence. In 
personalities, all of which claimed to be American addition, it is recommended that networks begin 
citizens, and focused on financial and banking targets. blocking the following hashes and communications 
Understanding the scope of the newly staged malicious with the identified Command and Control (C2) 
operations, root9B also tipped the information to the server: 
appropriate international and domestic government 
authorities.  Malware SHA1 Hash
While the continued vector of the attack remains 
unclear, root9B assesses that it will most likely be a 
spear-phishing campaign. This attack vector will likely 
use a well-crafted email containing either a malicious 
file or web hyperlink to what recipients believe is the 
actual website; but is instead a fake landing page. 
In typical attacks of this nature, once users navigate Command and Control (C2) Server:
to the link, visitors are prompted to supply account 
credentials and personal information under the false 
assumption that they are communicating with their 
bank via a secure link. However, it is possible, that the 
Sofacy group could utilize this server as a vector to 
deliver malicious code to the banking victims in an 
attempt to obtain access to the network. As of October 
2014, the Symantec Corporation had reported an 
increased use of spear-phishing emails containing 
malware specifically targeted against financial 
institutions. 

8 root9b.com



APT-28

May 10, 2015 root9B: The Threat Defiance Report

Interesting samples of over 250 identified malicious 
domains*:

b-of-americ.com
osce-military.org
bbcnewsweek.com
qov.hu.com
settings-yahoo.com
yovtube.co
googlesetting.com
cbiuaebn.com
cbiuaebank.com
techcruncln.com
un-unicef.org
royalbsuk.com
kwqx.us 
middle-eastreview.org
unitednat.org
fbonlinelottery.com
fubnt.com
globeshippers.biz
globeshippers.net
gsandsc.com
gshippers.com
hesselawchambers.com
largefarm.net
regionsbnk.info
seatreasures.org
ssandsc.com
t-d-canadatrust.com
techielawfirms.com
togounoffice.com
ubagroupsgh.com
un-unicef.org
unicomba.com
universalcoba.com

*Some domains may have been previously reported 
as associated with the Sofacy Group. It is root9B’s 
opinion that new information regarding cybercrime 
targeting banks makes this information relevant.

9 root9b.com



APT-28 

May 10, 2015 root9B: The Threat Defiance Report

Footnotes:

 utilities-hacks
iii     http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/apr/24/vladimir-putin-web-breakup-internet-cia

 to-utilities-hacks

10root9b.com