2019/2/21 Microsoft: Russian APT28 group hit Democratic Institutions in EuropeSecurity Affairs

MUST RHEHAoomDmeeN oC rtyhbC Keory rCebare'ismr Le aCzarri uCms yAbePeTr tw aragrCeftasyr Rebuessr ia AnwP ETantritfiea sDraeta B reaAcPhT  D eeDp aWteab Br Deiagictahl ID  D Heacekpin gWe Hback tivDisSmigeairtcah I.nl.. tIeDllige nce  
Internet of Things  Laws and regulations  Malware  Mobile  Reports  Security  Social Networks  Terrorism

Hacking  Hacktivism  Intelligence  Internet of Things  Laws and regulations  Malware  
EXTENDED COOKIE POLICY  Contact me

Mobile  Reports  Security  Social Networks  Terrorism  EXTENDED COOKIE POLICY  

Contact me

   
Microsoft says Russian APT28 espionage group hit

Sponsored Content

Democratic Institutions in Europe
1. LUXURY LAST MINUTE TRIP DEALS a

February 20, 2019  By Pierluigi Paganini

2. MEDICARE PREMIUMS OF 2019 a

Microsoft says Russian APT28 group carried 3. MEDICARE PART B COST FOR 2019 a

out multiple cyberattacks on democratic 4. WORK FROM HOME a

institutions in Europe between September and 5. BEST EUROPE DESTINATIONS a

December 2018. 

Microsoft revealed that hackers belonging to the cyber espionage group APT28 (aka Fancy
Digging the Deep Web: Exploring the dark

Bear, Pawn Storm, Sofacy Group, Sednit, and STRONTIUM) launched several attacks on democratic
side of the web

institutions in Europe between September and December 2018.

The tech giant revealed that 104 accounts belonging to organization employees in Belgium, France,
Germany, Poland, Romania, and Serbia, were hit by Russian cyber spied cyber-espionage group
APT28.

The APT28 group has been active since at least 2007 and it has targeted governments, militaries,
and security organizations worldwide. The group was involved also in the string of attacks that +Pierluigi Paganini

targeted 2016 Presidential election.
Pierluigi Paganini is member of the

According to a report published by Symantec in October, the group was actively conducting cyber ENISA (European Union Agency for
espionage campaigns against government and military organizations in Europe and South America.
https://securityaffairs.co/wordpress/81445/apt/apt28-institutions-europe.html 1/3



2019/2/21 Microsoft: Russian APT28 group hit Democratic Institutions in EuropeSecurity Affairs
Starting in 2017 and continuing into 2018, the APT28 group returned to covert intelligence gathering

HHoommee  C ybCery Cbreimre Cri Cmybeer w arCfayreber  AwPTarfa Draeta B reaAcPhT  D eeDp aWteab Br Deiagictahl ID  ND Heetawcekopinrk gW ane dHb aIncfk otirvmDisamigtioitna  InSl teIeDclliugrei ntyc)e
operations in Europe and South America.

Internet of Things  Laws and regulations  Malware  Mobile  Reports  Se)cTuhrriteyat L Saoncdiaslc Naeptew oSrtkaskeh oTeldrreorrism
Hacking  Hacktivism  Intelligence  Internet of Things  Laws and regulations  Malware  

According to Microsoft, APT28 hackers the attacks were extended EXTEGNrDoEuDp ,C mOeOmKIbEe Pr OoLfI CCYybe rC Gon7tact me

to think tanks and non-profit organizations working on topics related to democracy, electoral Workgroup of the Italian Ministry of
Mobile  Reports  Security  Social Networks  Terrorism  EXTENDED COOKIE POLICY  

integrity, and public policy. All the victims of the Russian state-sponsored hackers are in contact with Foreign Affairs and International
government officials. Contact me Cooperation, Director of the Master

“Microsoft has recently detected attacks targeting employees of the German Council on Foreign in Cyber Security at the Link Campus

Relations, The Aspen Institutes in Europe and The German Marshall Fund.” reads the post published University. He is also a Security

by Microsoft. Evangelist, Security Analyst and

Freelance Writer. Editor-in-Chief at
“MSTIC continues to investigate the sources of these attacks, but we are confident that many of
them originated from a group we call Strontium. The attacks occurred between September and "Cyber Defense Magazine",

December 2018.” 
Yoroi Blog

The list of the victims for the recent attacks include employees of the German Council on Foreign
Relations, The Aspen Institutes in Europe and The German Marshall Fund.

Hackers are launching spear-phishing attacks in the attempt of stealing employee credentials and
deliver malware. Phishing emails use malicious URLs and spoofed email addresses that look
legitimate.

Microsoft’s report doesn’t surprise, in August 2018 the company spotted a hacking campaign
targeting 2018 midterm elections, also in that case experts attributed the attacks to Russia-linked
APT28 group. 
Microsoft.

“Consistent with campaigns against similar U.S.-based institutions, attackers in most cases create
malicious URLs and spoofed email addresses that look legitimate. These spearphishing campaigns
aim to gain access to employee credentials and deliver malware.” continues Microsoft. Yoroi Blog

“The attacks we’ve seen recently, coupled with others we discussed last year, suggest an ongoing
effort to target democratic organizations. They validate the warnings from European leaders about
the threat level we should expect to see in Europe this year.”

Sponsored Content
Microsoft notified each of these organizations that were hit by the hackers and announced a variety
of technical measures to protect its customers from these attacks. 

Ad

Six Steps to Security Information and
Event Management (SIEM) Success

Visit Site

Pierluigi Paganini

(SecurityAffairs – APT28 group, cyberespionage)

 APT28 group Hacking Intelligence Pierluigi Paganini Russia Security Affairs

 
SHARE ON             

https://securityaffairs.co/wordpress/81445/apt/apt28-institutions-europe.html 2/3



2019/2/21 Microsoft: Russian APT28 group hit Democratic Institutions in EuropeSecurity Affairs

HHoommee  C ybCery Cbreimre Cri Cmybeer w arCfayreber  AwPTarfa Draeta B reaAcPhT  D eeDp aWteab Br Dei
 a
gictahl ID  D Heacekpin gWe Hback tivDismigita Inl tIeDllige nce

Pierluigi Paganini
Internet of Things  Laws and regulations  Malware  Mobile  Reports  Security  Social Networks  Terrorism

HackingPier luigHi Paacgakntiinvi iiss mmemb er Ionf ttehell EigNeISnAc (Eeuro peaInn tUenrionne Atg eonfc yT fohr iNnegtwsork Laws and regulations  Malware  
EXTENDED COOKIE POLICY  Contact me

and Information Security) Threat Landscape Stakeholder Group and Cyber G7
Mobile  Reports  Security  Social Networks  Terrorism  EXTENDED COOKIE POLICY  

Group, he is also a Security Evangelist, Security Analyst and Freelance Writer.
Editor-in-Chief at "Cyber Defense Magazine", PierluiCgi ois nat caycbetr  smeceurity expert
with over 20 years experience in the field, he is Certified Ethical Hacker at EC
Council in London. The passion for writing and a strong belief that security is
founded on sharing and awareness led Pierluigi to find the security blog
"Security Affairs" recently named a Top National Security Resource for US.
Pierluigi is a member of the "The Hacker News" team and he is a writer for
some major publications in the field such as Cyber War Zone, ICTTF, Infosec
Island, Infosec Institute, The Hacker News Magazine and for many other
Security magazines. Author of the Books "The Deep Dark Web" and “Digital
Virtual Currency and Bitcoin”.

 

 PREVIOUS ARTICLE
Expert released a PoC for a remote
code execution flaw in mIRC App

 

YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE

Sponsored Content
 

Sponsored Content

Expert released a PoC for a remote Sponsored Content

code execution flaw in mIRC App
North Korea’s Lazarus APT targets

February 20, 2019  By Pierluigi Paganini
Russian Entities

February 20, 2019  By Pierluigi Paganini

Copyright 2015 Security Affairs by Pierluigi Paganini All Right Reserved. Back to top 

https://securityaffairs.co/wordpress/81445/apt/apt28-institutions-europe.html 3/3