2019/12/11 越南相关的海洋莲花⼊侵宝马和现代⽹络安全事务

MUST READ City of Pensacola hit by a cyberattack few days after military base Search...  

Home  Cyber Crime  Cyber warfare  APT  Data Breach  Deep Web  Digital ID  

Hacking  Hacktivism  Intelligence  Internet of Things  Laws and regulations  Malware  

Mobile  Reports  Security  Social Networks  Terrorism  ICS-SCADA  

EXTENDED COOKIE POLICY  Contact me

Vietnam-linked Ocean Lotus hacked BMW and Sponsored Content

Hyundai networks Hyundai New Models a

December 7, 2019  By Pierluigi Paganini

BMW Car Prices a

Alleged Vietnamese Ocean Lotus (APT32) Hyundai Tucson Clearance a

hackers breached the networks of the car
Online Linux Training Courses a

manufacturers BMW and Hyundai to steal

automotive trade secrets.
Digging the Deep Web: Exploring the dark

According to German media, hackers suspected to be members of the Vietnam-linked APT Ocean
side of the web

Lotus (APT32) group breached the networks of the car manufacturers BMW and Hyundai. The
intrusion aimed at stealing automotive trade secrets.

“The attack the alleged Vietnamese hacker group began in the spring of 2019. Last weekend, the
automobile company from Munich finally took the computers concerned off the grid. Previously, the
group’s IT security experts had been monitoring the hackers for months. This is the result of research
by the Bayerischer Rundfunk.” reported the Bayerischer Rundfunk (BR). “Also on the South Korean
car manufacturer Hyundai, the hackers had it apart.”

The APT32 group, also known as OceanLotus Group, has been active since at least 2012 targeting
organizations across multiple industries and foreign governments, dissidents, and journalists.

Since at least 2014, experts at FireEye have observed APT32 targeting foreign corporations with an
interest in Vietnam’s manufacturing, consumer products, and hospitality sectors. The APT32 also
targeted peripheral network security and technology infrastructure corporations, and security firms
that may have connections with foreign investors.

The APT32 used both Windows and Mac malware in its campaigns delivered to the victims via
Yoroi Blog

watering hole attacks, it leveraged sophisticated techniques to evade detection.

In the recent attacks against the car manufacturers, the attackers managed to deploy in the target
network the Cobalt Strike hacking tool “Cobalt Strike”. 

https://securityaffairs.co/wordpress/94805/hacking/ocean-lotus-hacked-bmw-hyundai.html 1/3



2019/12/11 越南相关的海洋莲花⼊侵宝马和现代⽹络安全事务
The Cobalt Strike platform was developed for Adversary Simulations and Red Team Operations, but
it has also become popular among threat actors over the past years (including APT29 and FIN7).

It is quite easy to find pirated versions of the software that were used by attackers in the wild.

The attackers set up a website that posed as the BMW branch in Thailand, a similar technique was
employed in the attack aimed at Hyundai.

Once the staff at BMW has spotted the intrusion, it did not lock out the hackers, instead, it
attempted to track them while they attempted lateral movements in the breached networks. BMW
finally locked out the attackers at the end of November.

Neither BMW nor Hyundai commented on the report published by the BR media outlet.
Yoroi Blog

Ocean Lotus attackers were linked to other attacks against car vendors, including Toyota
Australia, Toyota Japan, and Toyota Vietnam.

Experts believe that the group is interested in stealing intellectual property for its government and
help state-owned companies.

Sponsored Content

The German Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution also warned of cyber espionage
activities carried out by the OceanLotus cyberespionage group. 

1 Online Linux Training Courses
“The OceanLotus group has already become important, and we should keep an eye on its evolution,
especially because of the target range automotive industry,” said a spokeswoman.

2 Hyundai Santa Fe Clearance Sale
In the summer, the German Association of the Automotive Industry (VDA) sent an e-mail to its
members. The subject was: “Warning message from the Federal Office for the Protection of the
Constitution about possible cyber attacks on German automobile companies.”  3 New BMW Models

1 Online Linux Training Courses a
4 Mobile Phone Tracking

2 Hyundai Santa Fe Clearance Sale a

5 Used BMW X5 Cars for Sale
3 New BMW Models a

4 Mobile Phone Tracking a 6 Cheap BMW X5 For Sale

7 Track Cell Phone Location
Pierluigi Paganini

(SecurityAffairs – BMW, cyberespionage) 8 Hyundai Dealer Clearance

 APT32 automotive Cyberespionage Hacking information security news

Ocean Lotus Pierluigi Paganini Security Affairs Security News

Sponsored Content

SHARE ON             
Sponsored Content

Pierluigi Paganini

Pierluigi Paganini is member of the ENISA (European Union Agency for Network Sponsored Content

and Information Security) Threat Landscape Stakeholder Group and Cyber G7
Group, he is also a Security Evangelist, Security Analyst and Freelance Writer.

https://securityaffairs.co/wordpress/94805/hacking/ocean-lotus-hacked-bmw-hyundai.html 2/3



2019/12/11 越南相关的海洋莲花⼊侵宝马和现代⽹络安全事务
Editor-in-Chief at "Cyber Defense Magazine", Pierluigi is a cyber security expert
with over 20 years experience in the field, he is Certified Ethical Hacker at EC
Council in London. The passion for writing and a strong belief that security is
founded on sharing and awareness led Pierluigi to find the security blog
"Security Affairs" recently named a Top National Security Resource for US.
Pierluigi is a member of the "The Hacker News" team and he is a writer for
some major publications in the field such as Cyber War Zone, ICTTF, Infosec
Island, Infosec Institute, The Hacker News Magazine and for many other
Security magazines. Author of the Books "The Deep Dark Web" and “Digital
Virtual Currency and Bitcoin”.

 PREVIOUS ARTICLE NEXT ARTICLE
Russia-linked Gamaredon group US authorities charged Dridex gang 

targets Ukraine officials members for stealing over $100 Million
 

YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE

More than 44 million Microsoft user
Adobe Patch Tuesday addresses

accounts are exposed to hack
critical flaws in four products

December 10, 2019  By Pierluigi Paganini
December 10, 2019  By Pierluigi Paganini

Copyright 2015 Security Affairs by Pierluigi Paganini All Right Reserved. Back to top 

Home  Cyber Crime  Cyber warfare  APT  Data Breach  Deep Web  Digital ID  Hacking  Hacktivism  Intelligence

Internet of Things  Laws and regulations  Malware  Mobile  Reports  Security  Social Networks  Terrorism  ICS-SCADA

EXTENDED COOKIE POLICY  Contact me

https://securityaffairs.co/wordpress/94805/hacking/ocean-lotus-hacked-bmw-hyundai.html 3/3