1、Overview

Since December 2018, Antiy CERT has captured a number of macro-enabled documents attack samples against Chinese users. These malicious documents forge the security detection results of the anti-virus software on the background of the blurred text, induce the victim to enable the malicious macro code, inject the Shellcode into the Word process itself, and finally decrypt and run the backdoor program in the memory. Based on an in-depth analysis of the back door, we find that the sample is from the OceanLotus group. On May 27, 2015, Antiy released an analysis report on the group, which led to continuous industry attention to the group. In view of the attacks captured by Antiy at that time, it was discovered that the attacker used the commercial attack platform Cobalt Strike, and Antiy named it APT-TOCS (that is, the APT attack group with the help of CS platform). However, since the use of CS is only one of the feautures of the group, and lacks the geographical features of group naming, we have subsequently adopted the name "OceanLotus" introduced by Qihoo 360 Technology. The sample found in this study is very similar to the special back door of OceanLotus, exposed by ESET in December 2018. By correlating the C2 of the backdoor sample, we have found more samples that spread the backdoor through a malicious self-extracting program. Some of the samples are aiming at China, while more are targeting at other countries such as Cambodia. The C2 of part of the self-extracting sample-propagating back door is directly connected to the known network infrastructure of the OceanLotus group. Based on the strong correlation between the dedicated backdoor and the network infrastructure, there is reason to believe that the attack actions associated with these samples are done by the APT group.

2、 Sample Analysis

2、1 Sample Label

All of the relevant attack payloads are Word documents, but no vulnerabilities are exploited. Instead, malicious macro code is embedded in it, which triggers subsequent malicious behaviors and finally implants the backdoor to the target host. This is a popular way since the phase. In order to enable the victim to enable the macro code, the attacker induces the user to click on "enable content" in the body of the document through a deceptive paragraph to trigger malicious macro code execution. We list two intelligence tags of them from these samples:

Name Trojan/Win32.VB.dropper

Original file name recommendations for the company’s summary report in 2018.doc

Size 2.03 MB (2,127,360 bytes)

Format Document/Microsoft.Word

Creation time 2018-12-26 03:53:00

Last modified time 2018-12-26 03:53:00

Document creation host name Admin

Code page Latin

VT First upload time 2019-03-07 04:44:06

VT Detect results 10/55

Virus name Trojan/Win32.VB.dropper

Size 2.94 MB (3,083,776 bytes)

Format Document/Microsoft.Word

Creation time 2019-01-24 02:39:00

Last modified time 2019-01-24 02:39:00

Document creation host name Admin

Code page Latin

VT First upload time 2019-03-08 06:47:27

VT Detect results 10/59

2、2 Technical Analysis

The relevant document samples adopt social engineering skills, pretending to be the security test results of 360 anti-virus software, and inducing the victims to enable the attached malicious macro. The body contents are shown in Screenshot of malicious document 1 and Screenshot of malicious document 2.

The malicious sample contains the obfuscated vb script. After the deobfuscate, the script is found to be:

1. Copy the current file to the %temp% folder.

2. Obtain and decrypt the second paragraph script and try to write to the registry ("HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Office\14.0\Word\Security\AccessVBOM"). When this registry value is 1, it allows access and modification of the vb module of the document.

3. Open the copied document under %temp%, remove the existing vb module in the document, and write a new module.

4. Open the copied document and call the function "x_N0th1ngH3r3" in the vb module. After that, the malicious document displays a false message.

The second paragraph script has many similarities with the first paragraph script. It decrypts the third paragraph script and get the ability to modify its own vb resources by setting the registry, then adds a third paragraph script to the document itself.

The third paragraph script decrypts the Shellcode and injects it into the winword.exe process. The script entry function is still named "x_N0th1ngH3r3". This function can distinguish 64-bit or 32-bit processes and perform process injection in an appropriate way.

The code for the injection process is 908 KB (929,792 bytes). After in-depth analysis, it is found that the injected code will guide the final backdoor, which is exposed by ESET in December 2018.

The original name of the backdoor program is "{A96B020F-0000-466F-A96D-A91BBF8EAC96}.dll".

The backdoor is first initialized, and loads the resource section RCData into the memory, then decrypts the configuration data and the library file.

The data contents it decrypts are as follows:

The contents from top to bottom represent:

1. The location of the registry:

HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\App\AppX70162486c7554f7f80f481985d67586d\Application

HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\App\AppX70162486c7554f7f80f481985d67586d\DefaultIcon

The key values of the two registries store the unique UUID that the backdoor C2 returns to the victim host as the session ID, taking the actual debugging as an example: 32034d33-aecc-47d4-9dcd-f0e56063087f.

2. Httpprov library file. It is used to support the mode of HTTP/HTTPS/SOCKS to communicate with C2 and statically link with libcurl.

After the initialization is completed, the backdoor starts to communicate with the C2 available in the C2 list via the POST mode of HTTP protocol. The User Agent of HTTP communication is: ‘Mozilla/4.0 (compatible; MSIE 8.0; Windows NT 6.0; Trident/4.0)’.

3. The backdoor will generate a fingerprint for the victim host. Its functions include: process operation, registry operation, obtaining hard disk information, local file operation, releasing and executing program, memory injection, etc., which doesn’t change much from the previous version exposed by ESET. As shown in the figure below, case 0x1 moves files, case 0x3 gets hard disk information, and cases 0, 2, 4, and 5 also include: 0xe file traversal, 0xf deletes file, 0x12 creates folders, 0x13 deletes folders.

The captured OceanLotus sample has been improved to a certain extent in terms of technical means, it uses macro code for Shellcode injection, and the whole process of payload delivery are without files. It can be seen that the OceanLotus organization is still actively updating its attack methods, and trying to conceal itself more successfully, in order that it can lurk in the victim machine for a longer time.

3、Correlation Analysis

When analyzing the backdoor C2’s unique resolution IP: 45.122.***.***, we notice that the IP is used as a C2 connection by a malicious self-extracting program "AcroRd32.exe" disguised as the main program of Adobe Reader.

The RAR self-extracting program is uploaded with the file name of “Li Jianxiang (Resume).exe”, and the last modification time is close to the malicious document 1, and its icon is disguised as Adobe Reader. After running, it uses the "regsvr32" command to register and run the malicious control, and then opens the Chinese PDF document prompted to be encrypted. Since the password is not obtained at that time, the body content is not known, but it seems that the PDF document is not malicious.

Through sample correlation, we find a self-extracting sample that uses the same method to attack Cambodia and other countries in an earlier time.

All the relevant self-extracting samples found so far have icons disguised as Adobe Reader, Office, pictures, etc., and file names of some samples disguised as "AcroRd32.exe", "Excel.exe", "WinWord.exe", etc.

The pictures and Word documents are normal files, aiming to distract the victim’s attention from the successful operation of a malicious payload.

The malicious OCX control contained in all self-extracting samples is to decrypt and call the final backdoor in memory. We compare all extracted backdoor samples with the backdoor released by malicious documents in Section 2 and find that they are highly consistent with each other, so we can basically confirm that they have the same source. C2 of some backdoors is connected to the network infrastructure of the known OceanLotus organization: 154.16.***.***. This IP has been repeatedly exposed by several security vendors for long-term maintenance and use of the OceanLotus organization.

4、Summary

Based on the above analysis, recently, the OceanLotus organization still remains active. It launches attacks against users in China and many countries in Southeast Asia. By releasing malicious macro documents and self-extracting programs, it eventually spreads the special backdoor of OceanLotus organization to achieve long-term control and information theft. Analysis of the characteristics of the backdoor weapons and network infrastructure used, (some of the backdoors are directly connected to the known network infrastructure of OceanLotus organization), suggests that the samples are from the OceanLotus organization.

As we pointed out earlier in the "2018 Cyber Threat Annual Report (pre-release)", the current effect of "forcing APT attack organizations to restrain themselves by analysis and exposure" has been greatly reduced. It is a testimony that the relevant attacker continues to use the C2 infrastructure address after it has been exposed. On the one hand, it makes us give up the naive idea of “a deliberate act as a warning to the opponent, and the opponent will retreat about thirty miles as a condition for peace”. On the other hand, it also increases the exposure of the attack behavior of an advanced threat actor with general ability, which provides certain opportunities and conditions for the investigation and analysis and further hunting.

Antiy’s product system realizes full-format recognition and deep resolution, compound document disassembly and macro extraction through the long-term independent research and development of the AVL SDK “next-generation anti-virus engine”. Intelligent Endpoint Protection System(IEP) implements detection and interception on multiple defense points on the host side. Persistent Threat Detection System(PTD) implements the attack behavior detection and load capture detection on the traffic side. The unknown files found in each link can be linked to PTA sandbox for analysis, and threat intelligence rules will be output, then it can better deal with attack risks of similar levels when deployed in a network system with good manageability. Customers of Antiy’s existing products can conduct further risk traceability checks by subscribing to the “Advanced Threat Traceability Package”. However, when faced with higher level attacks, the tactical situational awareness platforms with actual combat operation are further required to realize global accusation, control enemy situation and coordinate response.